https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/category/data-structures/matrix/ Matrix Archives - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Largest sub-matrix with all equal elements Check if it is possible to move from (0, 0) to (X, Y) in exactly K steps Sum of the count of number of adjacent squares in an M X N grid Finding the converging element of the diagonals in a square matrix Program to print the Diagonals of a Matrix Category Archives: Matrix Find maximum sum from top to bottom row with no adjacent diagonal elements Given a matrix A[][] of N * M, the task is to find the maximum sum from the top row to the bottom row after… Read More » Arrays Dynamic Programming Matrix Recursion Sorting Sort a 2D vector diagonally Given a 2D vector of NxM integers. The task is to sort the elements of the vectors diagonally from top-left to bottom-right in decreasing order.… Read More » Matrix Sorting Construct a matrix such that union of ith row and ith column contains every element from 1 to 2N-1 Given a number N, the task is to construct a square matrix of N * N where union of elements in some ith row with… Read More » Algorithms Arrays Mathematical Matrix Pattern Searching Randomized Sort the given Matrix | Memory Efficient Approach Given a matrix of N rows and M columns, the task is to sort the matrix in the strict order that is every row is… Read More » Arrays Matrix Sorting Encryption and Decryption of String according to given technique Given a string S, the task is to encrypt the string and decrypt the string again to the original form. Encryption Technique: If L is… Read More » Arrays Data Structures Matrix Strings Path with maximum product in 2-d array Given a 2D matrix of size N*M. The task is to find the maximum product path from (0, 0) to (N-1, M-1). You can only… Read More » Algorithms Arrays Greedy Matrix Sum of non-diagonal parts of a square Matrix 1 Given a square matrix of size N X N, the task is to find the sum of all elements at each portion when the matrix… Read More » Arrays Mathematical Matrix School Programming array-traversal-question Java Program to Add two Matrices Given two matrices A and B of same size, the task to add them in Java. Examples: Input: A[][] = {{1, 2}, {3, 4}} B[][]… Read More » Java Java Programs Matrix School Programming Java Program to Multiply two Matrices of any size Given two matrices A and B of any size, the task to multiply them in Java. Examples: Input: A[][] = {{1, 2}, {3, 4}} B[][]… Read More » Java Java Programs Matrix School Programming Program to print the Diagonals of a Matrix in O(N) time Given a 2D square matrix, the task is to print the Principal and Secondary diagonals of this matrix in O(N) time complexity. For O(N2) time,… Read More » Matrix Program to find the Product of diagonal elements of a matrix Given an N * N matrix, the task is to find the product of the elements of left and right diagonal. Examples: Input: arr[] =… Read More » Matrix School Programming Maximum sum path in a Matrix 2.5 Given an n*m matrix, the task is to find the maximum sum of elements of cell starting from the cell (0, 0) to cell (n-1,… Read More » Algorithms Data Structures Dynamic Programming Matrix Recursion Count of odd length contiguous Palindromic sequences in a Matrix 3 Given a matrix arr[][] of size MxN, the task is to find the number of contiguous palindromic sequences of odd length in that matrix. Example:… Read More » Arrays Mathematical Matrix palindrome Making all elements of matrix equal to a given element K Given a 2-d array arr[][], the task is to check whether it is possible to make all elements of the array to equal to a… Read More » Arrays Data Structures Matrix Number of square matrices with all 1s Given an N*M matrix containing only 0s and 1s, the task is to count the number of square submatrices containing all 1s. Examples: Input: arr[][]… Read More » Dynamic Programming Matrix Page 1 of 3912345...102030...»Last » Most popular articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? Most visited articles I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How Does Google Use Machine Learning? Most asked Computer Science Subjects Interview Questions in Amazon, Microsoft, Flipkart How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved