https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/bring-out-the-geek-in-you-during-covid-19-outbreak/ Bring Out The Geek In You During COVID-19 Outbreak - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Geek Week – Celebrate The Biggest Programming Festival With GeeksforGeeks I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? 7 Common Programming Principles That Every Developer Must Follow SOLID Principle in Programming: Understand With Real Life Examples How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development 10 Famous Bugs in The Computer Science World How Does Google Use Machine Learning? How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 Which is better, the GRE or the GATE? How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? How to Protect Yourself From Cyber Attacks? Computer science, an overrated dream Graphene Batteries 10 Tips to Protect Your Online Data Privacy in 2019 Microsoft Windows (10) Vs macOS (Mojave) If we delete cookies of a site, we can still logged in without logging again Interesting Funny Commands in Linux How to Setup Burp Suite for Bug Bounty or Web Application Penetration Testing? How to use Emojis in Windows 10? Neuralink - A Brain-Computer Interface Technology Evolution of Foldable Smartphones Impact of IoT on CyberSecurity How to Transparently Overlaid Two Directories Using UnionFS in Linux? Benefits of Automated Cross-Browser Testing for Online Business Comparing Python with C and C++ Brain Machine Interface (BMI) Bring Out The Geek In You During COVID-19 Outbreak The world is facing one of the worst epidemics, the outbreak of COVID-19, you all are aware of that and this is not the first time when we are fighting against some pandemic. We hope that you all are taking the proper precautions mentioned by the health organizations to stay safe and to protect yourself from this serious infectious disease. Most of the people are staying at home during this time and avoiding going outside. Schools and colleges are also closed. A lot of people are unable to continue their studies and learning because they can’t go outside, they can’t attend the classroom programs, they can’t interact with friends or mentors to get the help and they can’t attend any meetups or events as well. So you might be thinking to spend this free time doing some below stuff… Watching a new TV series on Netflix or Amazon Prime Searching for a new game and get really into it. Spending your whole day roaming in your house, sleeping, eating, scrolling social media, listening music and staring out the window at the empty streets around you. Before you think to do any of the things mentioned above remember that a wise person always remains calm in these kinds of situations and will try to consume enough of the knowledge so that he/she can become a valuable asset later. If you feel that you are stuck at home and you can’t continue your studies without attending your college and interacting with your mentor and friends then here is a quick motivation and an interesting fact for you… When the Great Plague of London was going around in 1665, Cambridge University shut down and Issac Newton was forced to stay home. During this time, he invented calculus, parts of optic theory and allegedly, while sitting in his garden, he saw an apple fall from a tree that inspired his understanding of gravity and laws of motion. So, if you think you are can’t achieve anything while staying at home then you are wrong. You are not powerless and your brain is not different than Newton or Einstein or any other legend. Technology can save someone’s life, you can utilize this time wisely, you can develop your technical skills and you can build some applications to help others. You can also utilize this time to develop your coding skills and secure a job in the future for yourself. Now the question is how, if you can’t go outside…?? To build an application and to secure a job, a lot of people (including self-taught) teach programming to themselves using the free online resources and this is something you can do at this time… Practice the Coding Problems and Uplift Your Skills Data structure and Algorithms is the most important skill to become a good programmer or to crack the interview of any top tech product-based companies. Today, in the era of the internet you can learn this valuable skill-set easily using the online coding portal. In the past 12 Years, GeeksforGeeks has helped a lot of students and professionals to build this valuable skill and other technical skills to secure a job in some big top tech companies including Amazon, Facebook, Microsoft, Google, Adobe. You have more time than ever because of this outbreak. If you haven’t started learning DSA or you haven’t touched it from a very long then start your preparation from today, plan your schedule and don’t leave any blank spots on your calendar after the coronavirus blows over. You just need to have a computer with internet access – and a warm place to sit – you’re set. This time make this outbreak an excuse to pay your attention to these coding challenges. Get your hands dirty in these coding questions and start solving the problems every single day. The best thing is you don’t need to spend a single penny and you can also keep track of your progress. Start Practicing Today… Practice GeeksforGeeks portal can help you in building your problem solving and coding skill. To crack the interview of any big tech company this skill is really important. It should be your topmost priority to learn. So get your hands dirty in solving the coding questions of data structures and algorithms every single day. You will solve basic, easy, medium and hard difficulty level of questions, so it’s useful for all the students as well as professionals. You can sort the questions by accuracy, submission or newest. You can also filter out questions based on specific data structures and algorithms topics such as Array, Linked List, Graph, Tree and many more. The best thing is you can track your progress on this board while solving the problems every single day. Now imagine, if you solve the question regularly on this board and utilize your time wisely then how confident you can become in problem-solving and coding skills. We are sure that it will boost your CV and you will be fully prepared for your next interviews. Targeting for Tech Giant Companies (Like Google, Microsoft, Amazon …..) ?? If you want the coding problems company-wise then you must follow the link Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise. Here, you will find the top tech company name tags and solve the questions. This is beneficial if your target is any specific company. Also, GeeksforGeeks is providing coding questions Topic-Wise like Arrays, String, Stack, Tree, Graph, bit Magic, etc. If you want to practice them then follow the link Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, Etc. While solving the questions you will get an idea that what kind of questions and a specific flavor a specific company includes in their questions while interviewing a candidate. You will also have an idea of difficulty level and how companies include a slight modification in the questions which you have seen earlier. Learn a new Programming Language – GeeksforGeeks has been generating plethora of quality content for the knowledge-hungry Geeks that can be accessed freely. You can find the different programming languages tutorials like C, C++, Java, Python, C#, Golang, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, etc. Also, you can access a huge pool of Data Structure and Algorithms concepts and problems. GeeksforGeeks Online Courses Interview Preparation Courses (DSA) – When you are at home it’s difficult to get a mentor who can teach you online all the concepts from basic to advanced level. GeeksforGeeks paid online courses are designed specially keeping this thing in mind. These courses develop your skills and help in interview preparations for product-based companies. The courses will have premium video lectures recorded by industry experts. You will also get the Course Completion Certificate after completing the course along with the internship opportunities. DSA Self Paced and DSA Self Paced With Doubt Assistance courses are designed to learn and practice DSA coding questions for placement in top big product-based companies. You will find the premium lecture videos by Mr. Sandeep Jain (CEO & Founder, GeeksforGeeks). You will learn algorithmic techniques for solving DSA problems from basic to advanced level and you will implement more than 200 algorithmic coding problems. Programming Language Courses – For a beginner, sometimes it becomes very difficult to find out the programming language concepts sequentially and arranged on a single platform. But GeeksforGeeks is the one-stop solution for this. You will not only find the programming language concepts sequentially but also the topic-wise contests for better practice. Geeksforgeeks is also providing a leaderboard and a discussion forum where you can see your growth among other geeks and can ask your doubts. The free programming languages courses are Fork C, Fork CPP, Fork Java, Fork Python. These all are the limited resources we have mentioned above. There are plenty of other online courses available for the interview preparation and to build your skillset in different computer science areas. All these courses will keep you busy until the end of your days. Visit on the link GeeksforGeeks Courses to check all the online paid and free courses available on the portal. For more coding stuff you can Subscribe to the Youtube Channel: GeeksforGeeks Youtube Channel Download the Mobile Application in Your Phone: GeeksforGeeks Mobile App Visit on the Portal to Read Enormous Content: GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks Team is wishing you and your family safe passage through this difficult time. We hope that the world will win the battle against coronavirus very soon. Meanwhile, don’t let this disease become a barrier to your learning. Utilize your time and develop your skills as much as possible to put yourself in a position to do the maximum amount of good for your community in the future. STAY SAFE & KEEP LEARNING ! My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Recommended Posts: Geek Week – Celebrate The Biggest Programming Festival With GeeksforGeeks Special 21 - Coding Interview Preparation in 21 Days Lockdown Distributed Objects Computing: The next generation of client-server computing How to Get Masters in Data Science in 2020? How to be a Good Programmer in College ? Top 10 Reasons to Learn AWS - Services And Benefits 7 Essential Mobile Apps for Computer Science(CS) Students How to Think Like a Programmer? 192.168.0.1 Admin Login Write From Home Challenge - Technical Content Writing Event By GeeksforGeeks Top 5 Reasons to Learn Ethical Hacking Tips to Crack a Telephonic Job Interview Get Your Dream Job With Amazon SDE Test Series Modern Principles Of Software Development anuupadhyay Check out this Author's contributed articles. If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article using contribute.geeksforgeeks.org or mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks. Please Improve this article if you find anything incorrect by clicking on the "Improve Article" button below. Article Tags : GBlog GFG-Update thumb_up 58 To-do Done 2.6 Based on 9 vote(s) Please write to us at contribute@geeksforgeeks.org to report any issue with the above content. Post navigation Previous first_page Top 7 Payment Gateway APIs That Every Developer Must Know Next last_page How I got selected for the TalentSprint Women Engineers (WE) Program powered by Google? Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments Most popular articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Impact of IoT on CyberSecurity Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? Most Visited Articles I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How Does Google Use Machine Learning? Most asked Computer Science Subjects Interview Questions in Amazon, Microsoft, Flipkart ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved