https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/campus-geek-of-the-month/ Campus Geek of the Month - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Write an Article Courses @ GeeksforGeeks Internships @ GeeksforGeeks Coding Practice How to write an Interview Experience? Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Must Do Coding Questions Topic-wise Basic Easy Medium Hard Expert Step by Step Preparation Company Preparation Top Topics Company Specific Practice Software Design Patterns Placements Preparation Course Interview Corner Recent Interview Experiences GQ Home Page Quiz Corner LMNs What's New ? Leaderboard !! Topic-wise Practice Subjective Problems Difficulty Level - School Difficulty Level - Basic Difficulty Level - Easy Difficulty Level - Medium Difficulty Level - Hard Explore More... C C++ Java Python SQL PHP JavaScript School Programming Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Engineering Mathematics Design Patterns Common Interview Puzzles Web Technology G-Facts Computer Graphics Image Processing Project Ideas Campus Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Program The Campus Geeks Connect program is a platform for students who are passionate for coding and very active in programming competitions, clubs and activities around the campus. Being one of the largest placement preparation portal for software job aspirants, Geeksforgeeks is now planning to develop communities around campuses. Campus Geek of the Month is a renowned title rewarded to the best performing Campus Ambassador for a particular month. For more details and application procedure, click here How can I become “Campus Geek of the Month”? Geek of the month is decided by the end of every month on the basis of performance of campus ambassadors in their campus. The considered metrics are active participation, course registrations, workshop organizations and much more. You can also be a star in your campus and feel like a Boss! Apply for Campus Geeks Connect program today. Campus Geek of the month – October 2019 Name: Abhishek Raj Permani Testimonial: Being a part of such a Coding Family like Geeks for Geeks is really an awesome experience. Here I meet some awesome people from different parts of India, working in various fields like Web Development, App Development, Machine Learning, and the Internet of Things. During my interacting period from these people, I kept on learning new things and also implementing them on my current projects. I have also enrolled myself in Data structure Course of Geeks For Geeks, it’s an awesome course to learn Data Structure and Algorithm. During this time I have organized many events in collaboration with Geeks For Geeks in my college and support from Geeks For Geeks side is been great. As a Campus Ambassador of Geeks For Geeks, I learned many new skills like marketing and organizing events. I also developed an interest in Competitive Programming after interacting with them. It was the time, after which I started working on my competitive programming skills. I used to code in C++ as a competitive programmer. After understanding the basic data structure and algorithm, I gained confidence and finally got selected for the Summer Internship 2020 at Samsung Research Institute Bangalore (SRIB). I gave my credit for success in all fields to Geeks For Geeks family and will always be thankful to them. At last, I am very thankful to Geeks For Geeks by awarding me “Geek of the Month” title of October month. Campus Geek of the month – September 2019 Name: Shubhangi Gupta Testimonial: I found out about GeeksforGeeks in my first year and that, it covered most of the engineering syllabus. There were last-minute notes for revision! The following year I participated in Sudo Placement and learned some new concepts. I can across the Campus Ambassador program and applied! I wanted to help students learn to code and get better at it. What I liked about GeeksforGeeks was the well-written editorial, it offers a simple solution and then an optimized one, which makes learning easier. Moreover, the platform has an active community of contributors! You can add a comment and get the answer in a few hours, not by the moderators but by the community 🙂 Under the GeeksforGeeks IGDTUW chapter, more than 100 women engineers are learning to code and I am really happy to help them in their journey. Campus Geek of the month – August 2019 Name: Vishruth Khare Testimonial: Hi! I am the Campus Ambassador from Delhi Technological University and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the GeeksforGeeks team for acknowledging me and my efforts. It has been a wonderful association with them. My task as a CA involves maintaining the Facebook page of GfG-DTU, taking up the queries of students, conducting workshops and coding contests and, pitching the courses offered by GeeksForGeeks to students who are unaware about them. GeeksForGeeks community is known for its massive reach among the students and the completeness it offers to preparation and by being a part of this system, I hope to encourage more students into coding so that they cherish the beauty of this platform. GeekForGeeks act as a perfect catalyst for students stepping into the Corporate world, out of their comfort zone. It offers vast knowledge sources under varied domains which makes learning a new skill more structured and accessible. I would like to thank Parikshit Hooda (GfG-DTU CA 2018) for helping me getting accustomed to the GfG interface and the challenges it offers. Also, my sincere gratitude to Ayushman Sir and Mayank Sir from Geeks team for helping me clear my academic as well as moral doubts while I was getting acquainted with the program. All in all, a great experience and I hope to contribute more to the forum for the benefit of its users. Cheers! Happy Coding 🙂 Campus Geek of the month – July 2019 Name: Dev Aryan Shrivastava Testimonial: I am the Campus Ambassador from SRM University, Chennai. I am a technical member of DSC SRM powered by Google Developers. Thanks, GFG for giving this title. Being a campus ambassador my task includes maintaining the facebook, Instagram page. Clarifying the doubts of the students within the campus also leading Geeks for Geeks campus club with efficient team members, organizing seminars, workshops, and collaborating with different clubs on campus, to increase the outreach of geeks for geeks so that people can connect more and more with GFG. Being a Campus Ambassador I got a platform to showcase my leadership skills. I have also enhanced my skills using various sources of geeks for geeks. I would like to thank gfg for always supporting students to build their careers. I will keep contributing to gfg in the future too. Campus Geek of the month – April 2019 Name: Karan Bhargav Testimonial: Hi I am Karan bhargav pursuing bachelor of engineering in computer science from Chandigarh University and I want to thank the GeeksforGeeks community for honoring me with this prestigious title. My tasks include(d) maintaining the Facebook page of GeeksforGeeks-CU, answering the queries that the students of my University have, making more and more people contribute to GeeksforGeeks and representing my University in the GeeksforGeeks Campus Ambassadors community. Also, being a campus ambassador, I was encouraged to learn many new things during this tenure. I used to get certain tasks such as promoting free courses like Sudo Placement, Fork C++, Fork Java, etc. from our assigned mentor and these tasks enhanced our leadership qualities and communication skills. I hope other people benefitted from the courses we promoted. These courses were beneficial for me a lot as I got a lot of experience from these and yeah these were much encouraging one during my projects. So at last, I would like to thanks GFG for providing me such a great opportunity. I will keep contributing to GeeksforGeeks in the future hoping it will help others in increasing their knowledge. Campus Geek of the month – March 2019 Name: Keshav Gupta Testimonial: Hi, I have been practicing questions on GeeksforGeeks from the last 2 years and the website has amazing concepts and all the content needed by a programmer. GeeksforGeeks is a wonderful platform where one can find various programming challenges to practice thoroughly. I also did my summer internship at GFG and it was a fun loving experience for me. Also, being a campus ambassador, I was encouraged to learn many new things during this tenure. I used to get certain tasks such as promoting free courses like Sudo Placement, Fork C++, Fork Java, etc. from our assigned mentor and these tasks enhanced our leadership qualities and communication skills. I hope other people benefitted from the courses we promoted. These courses were beneficial for me a lot as I got a lot of experience from these and yeah these were much encouraging one during my projects. So at last, I would like to thanks GFG for providing me such a great opportunity. Campus Geek of the month – February 2019 Name: Diksha Jain Testimonial: Thanks a lot GeeksforGeeks for awarding me with this prestigious title. I have always been passionate about sharing knowledge and helping others. I encouraged many students to actively participate in coding and learn other things to get a plethora of opportunities. I also motivated myself for the improvement of my programming skills too. It also helped me in improving my leadership skills and personality, along with my programming skills. I will keep contributing to GeeksforGeeks in the future hoping it will help others in increasing their knowledge. Once again, thanks for this amazing title: “Campus Geek of the Month”. Campus Geek of the month – January 2019 Name: Parikshit Lamba Testimonial: I am the Campus Ambassador from Delhi Technological University. My tasks include(d) maintaining the Facebook page of GeeksforGeeks-DTU, answering the queries that the students of my University or otherwise have, making more and more people contribute to GeeksforGeeks(although this happened organically without any directed effort due to active presence that I tried to maintain), representing my University in the GeeksforGeeks Campus Ambassadors community. I got to know about the GeeksforGeeks article contributions, the campus ambassador program and the Geek of the Month accolade from the previous year Campus Ambassador(Nikhil Kumar Singh) from my University. I noticed that there were not that many article on the Blockchain topic. So, I decided to write majorly in that domain. Everything went pretty well. Thanks. Campus Geek of the month – December 2018 Name: Palak Baghla Testimonial: Since May 2018 I have been a part of the Campus Ambassador Program at GeeksforGeeks. And I have always been trying to contribute my best for the organization. I received Goodies from Geeksforgeeks 2 times for performing the tasks properly. Geeksforgeeks knows well how to appraise the CAs for their performance. This has been a huge platform for me to create a good network for myself. An appraisal of “Geek of the month” is really a huge encouragement & it not only boosts our commitment towards the organization but also encourage us to work with more commitment. Even I myself take up courses from Geeksforgeeks and participate in contests held by them. They provide a very helpful platform for the students to learn and boost up their skills. Thank you so much to complete team of GeeksforGeeks! Campus Geek of the month – November 2018 Name: Ipsita Chakraborty Testimonial: I would like to take this opportunity to thank the GeeksforGeeks team for acknowledging me and my efforts. It has been a wonderful experience so long in the Campus Ambassador Program. GeeksforGeeks has always been a saviour throughout, be it last moment studies for exams, learning competetive coding or any new language or some algorithm. Being able to work with GeeksforGeeks is the utmost pleasure for any Computer Science student and I am glad to serve the GeeksforGeeks team as a Campus Ambassador. Being a part of this program, I got to communicate with so many students in my college having keen interest in coding. They were made aware of the different opportunities that GeeksforGeeks is providing like Sudo Placement, Fork Java, Fork CPP, etc. There have also been rewards for the top performers to keep them motivated and for the campus ambassadors as well to keep up the good work. Apart from that we have got assistance from the GeeksforGeeks team in conducting coding contests in the college. All in all, the entire team is doing great work involving students from colleges across the country and reaching out to each and every individual, imparting valuable knowledge. To all the students out there, keep learning, keep growing. Happy Coding ! 😊 My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments Most Popular Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? Most Visited Articles How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How Does Google Use Machine Learning? Most asked Computer Science Subjects Interview Questions in Amazon, Microsoft, Flipkart How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved