https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/array-rearrange/ array-rearrange Archives - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Tag Archives: array-rearrange Arrange the array such that upon performing given operations an increasing order is obtained Given an array arr[] of size N, the task is to print the arrangement of the array such that upon performing following operations on this… Read More » Arrays Queue Sorting Technical Scripter array-rearrange Program to print an array in Pendulum Arrangement with constant space Given an array arr[] of integers, the task is to arrange them in a way similar to the to-and-fro movement of a Pendulum without using… Read More » Arrays Sorting array-rearrange Constructive Algorithms Number of ways in which an item returns back to its initial position in N swaps in array of size K Given two numbers K and N, the task is to find the number of ways such that an item at position i returns back to… Read More » Arrays Combinatorial Mathematical Recursion Technical Scripter array-rearrange Permutation and Combination tail-recursion Technical Scripter 2019 Length of the longest alternating subarray 1 Given an array of N including positive and negative numbers only. The task is to find the length of the longest alternating (means negative-positive-negative or… Read More » Algorithms Arrays array-rearrange Constructive Algorithms subarray Arrange first N natural numbers such that absolute difference between all adjacent elements > 1 Given an integer N. The task is to find the permutation of first N natural numbers such that the absolute difference between any two consecutive… Read More » Algorithms Combinatorial array-rearrange permutation Rearrange Odd and Even values in Alternate Fashion in Ascending Order 2.6 Given an array of integers (both odd and even), the task is to arrange them in such a way that odd and even values come… Read More » Algorithms Arrays Sorting array-rearrange cpp-vector Microsoft Rearrange an array to maximize i*arr[i] 2 Given an array of N integers, you have to select all of these integers in any order. For every integer you select, you get points… Read More » Arrays Greedy Sorting array-rearrange Rearrange all elements of array which are multiples of x in increasing order 2 Given an array of integers ‘arr’ and a number x, the task is to sort all the elements which are multiples of x of the… Read More » Arrays Sorting array-rearrange divisibility Technical Scripter 2018 Arrange a binary string to get maximum value within a range of indices 4 Given a string consisting of only 0’s and 1’s. Now you are given N non-intersecting ranges L, R ( L <= R), more specifically [L1,… Read More » Competitive Programming Strings array-rearrange binary-string lexicographic-ordering Maximum number of fixed points using atmost 1 swap 3 Given a permutation of N elements (Elements are in range 0 to N-1). A fixed point is an index at which the value is same… Read More » Arrays array-rearrange limited-range-elements Split the array and add the first part to the end | Set 2 2 Given an array and split it from a specified position, and move the first part of array add to the end. Examples: Input : arr[]… Read More » Arrays array-rearrange Reverse rotation Segregating negative and positive maintaining order and O(1) space 3.1 Segregation of negative and positive numbers in an array without using extra space, and maintaining insertion order and in O(n) time complexity. Examples: Input :9… Read More » Arrays array-rearrange In-Place Algorithm 2 In-place has more than one definitions. One strict definition is. An in-place algorithm is an algorithm that does not need an extra space and produces… Read More » Analysis Arrays Sorting array-rearrange Minimum number of adjacent swaps for arranging similar elements together 4.3 Given an array of 2 * N positive integers where each array element lies between 1 to N and appears exactly twice in the array.… Read More » Algorithms Arrays Greedy array-rearrange limited-range-elements Partition negative and positive without comparison with 0 1.7 Given an array of n integers, both negative and positive, partition them into two different arrays without comparing any element with 0. Examples: Input :… Read More » Arrays array-rearrange cpp-vector programming-puzzle Page 1 of 41234» Most Popular Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? Most Visited Articles How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How Does Google Use Machine Learning? Most asked Computer Science Subjects Interview Questions in Amazon, Microsoft, Flipkart How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved