https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/careers/ Careers - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Careers What impact will you make? Are you ready to apply your knowledge to exciting new challenges? From learning to leadership, this is your chance to take your career to a next level. Apply for below listed vacancies and our team will get in touch with you. Full Time Jobs 1) Profile: Software Developer Job Description : We are looking for a coding fanatic who is interested in working upon and learning new technologies. A person who will closely work with our Software team to accomplish the operational excellence of the GeeksforGeeks website. If you think you have the niche for new technologies to work on, you will be our choice to go. Roles and Responsibilities : You will be responsible for adding and improving functionalities to the various domains of GeeksforGeeks. You will be responsible for developing REST APIs for backend services like Authentication, Authorization, etc. Desired Skills: Good knowledge and working experience in React JS and Javascript. Excellent Knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms/ Programming Concepts. Experience in basic Web development (HTML5/ CSS3/ JavaScript/ SQL). Well versed with RDBMS with hands on experience in MySQL. Knowledge of Amazon AWS and cloud services. Experience in Backend development (Django/ Core PHP). Familiarity with RESTful APIs to connect Web applications to back-end service. Strong knowledge of Object Oriented programming, design principles, patterns, and best practices. Creativity and critical thinking to optimally implement new features. Familiarity with code versioning tools like Git. Learn quickly and adapt to a fast-changing environment. Ability and eagerness to learn and explore new topics independently. Qualification : B Tech./ M Tech.(CS/IT) OR MCA Salary offered: Best in industry. Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Click here to apply 2) Profile : Member of Technical Staff Job Description : GeeksforGeeks is looking for a computer science enthusiast who is interested in gaining and imparting it’s knowledge. A person who is comfortable in working with our tight knit review team in publishing technical articles while also improving your own knowledge since the articles are from all around the world. If you think you have command over topics like Python, DSA, Android and web technologies in general on your fingertips along with a good analytical skills, then your profile would be the catch for us. Roles and Responsibilities : You will coordinate and work with the Technical Content Team for creating and reviweing quality content for our website and stimulate problems for various domains. Create and Review questions for numerous courses that are available on our website. Review technical content, articles, codes, and other contents to be published on our website. Create problems and test the questions around data structures and algorithms,etc across various difficulty levels for Hiring Contests,conducted by GeeksforGeeks. Desired Skills: At least one of these skills is required: Excellent Knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms/ C/ C++/ Java/ Ruby etc. Excellent knowledge of web technologies like HTML/ CSS/ JavaScript/ JQuery/ PHP etc. Knowledge of other computer science subjects like DBMS/ OS/ Networking/ Machine Learning etc. Qualification : B Tech./ M Tech. (CS/IT) OR MCA Salary offered: Best in industry. Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Click here to apply 3) Profile : Sales and Marketing Trainee/ Executive Job Description : GeeksforGeeks is currently looking for ambitious and highly-skilled sales and marketing personnel. You will have tremendous opportunities to develop and form innovative campaigns that will help to grow our organization’s marketing strategies.Candidates for this role should be creative, charismatic, knowledgeable, and exceptionally well-versed in Social Media Marketing. If you think you can help channelise GeeksforGeeks various Marketing strategies , then you are what we are looking for. Roles and Responsibilities : Work collaboratively with the sales team to assess current projections. Will be responsible for all the communication with clients and getting them on board for association. Resolving queries of candidates for our courses and converting them to sales. Help to detail, design, and implement marketing plans for each product and services being offered. Handling social media channels of GeeksforGeeks. Desired Skills: Excellent Verbal and Written English and excellent in Communication Skills. Proficient in Social Media Marketing, Email Marketing Qualification : Any Graduate/Post-Graduate (B.Tech in CS Preferred) Salary offered: Best in industry. Expected Date of Joining : As soon as possible Location : Noida Click here to apply 4) Profile: Recruiter Job Description : Would be responsible for activities related to Placement of the students,with other companies. To establish and maintain strong Corporate/HR connection to set tie-ups of other companies with GeeksforGeeks, for placements of students. Form successful association with variety of companies where students can do internships or apply for a full time placement. Follow-up and tracking the requirements of various companies and initiate the placement process for the same. To handle end-to-end placement related activities and to collect feedback of the students from the companies, for future references. Desired Skills: Must have strong connections/links with the Corporates or HR personnel of various companies through linkedIn or other channels of professional network. Must form unique association with employers to build a positive image of the company’s brand. Excellent Communication and interpersonal skills . Should be persistent in follow-ups with the companies. Salary offered: Best in industry Expected Joining : As soon as possible Location : Sector- 136, Noida Click here to apply 5) Profile: Course Mentor Job Description : GeeksforGeeks stands apart from other platforms because only experienced professionals are permitted to lead our cohorts. We are seeking individuals who possess software development/ teaching experience. The Course Mentors should have strong command on Data Structures and Algorithms. Desired Skills: Candidates with Excellent in-depth knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms. Candidates with experience on live projects and excellent programming skills will be preferred. You should posses excellent communication skills and should be able to communicate effectively with diversified student base (Including International Geographic locations). You are willing to research and explore best practices in teaching and are able to contribute to the ongoing evolution of a comprehensive curriculum, with supporting exercises to produce valuable junior developers. Basic Knowledge of Adobe After Effects and Adobe Photoshop. You should apply if: You are comfortable and confident guiding students through structured lesson plans while sometimes needing to diverge from the lecture track to give real world examples based on your own experiences. You are honest and open with your students and display a genuine desire to help them learn and grow. You are able to keep your highest performing students engaged with additional challenges. You are capable of translating your own career experiences into advice for aspiring developers. Required Experience: 1-5 yrs (experience with Tech Institutes/ Training Institutes/ IT Services Organizations) Salary offered: 10 LPA and above Expected Joining : As soon as possible Location : Sector- 136, Noida Click here to apply 6) Profile: Instructor Job Description : GeeksforGeeks is looking for a teaching enthusiast who is interested in contributing to our platform. A person who can work with our mentors in providing content and curricular support to build a learning environment in terms of supervision, coaching and mentoring to our online and offline courses. If you think you can help orient the GeeksforGeeks educational community, you are what we are looking for. Roles and Responsibilities : Job involves teaching students in a classroom of around 40 students. Recording video lectures for Online courses. Problem solving, taking doubt sessions. Desired Skills: Excellent in-depth knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms. Candidates with experience on live projects and excellent programming skills will be preferred. Location: Sector- 136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India. Job Type: Full Time. How to Apply: Send your resume/CV to careers@geeksforgeeks.org with subject: Application for Full Time Mentor in Geeks Classes. Part Time Jobs 1) Profile: Instructor Job Description : Job involves teaching students in a classroom of around 40 students. Problem solving, taking doubt sessions. Desired Skills: Excellent in-depth knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms. Candidates with experience on live projects and excellent programming skills will be preferred. Location: Sector- 136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India. Job Type: Part time/ Freelancer. Job Timings: Weekends (3 hours/day). How to Apply: Send your resume/CV to careers@geeksforgeeks.org with subject: Application for Mentor in Geeks Classes. 2) Profile: Teaching Assistant Job Description : Job involves taking doubt sessions and coordinating with mentors. Desired Skills: Excellent in-depth knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms. Candidates with excellent competitive programming profiles will be preferred. Location: Sector- 136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India. Job Type: Part-time/ Freelancer. Job Timings: Weekends (3 hours/day). How to Apply: Send your resume/CV to careers@geeksforgeeks.org with subject: Application for Teaching Assistant in Geeks Classes. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved