https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/design-issues-in-network-layer/ Design Issues in Network Layer - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Most asked Computer Science Subjects Interview Questions in Amazon, Microsoft, Flipkart Implementing Salting Difference between Secure Socket Layer (SSL) and Secure Electronic Transaction (SET) Areas of Network Management Network Protocols Securing wireless and mobile devices Host Data Safeguarding Network News Transfer Protocol (NNTP) Grid Computing Network Safeguarding Design Issues in Network Layer Network layer is majorly focused on getting packets from the source to the destination, routing error handling and congestion control. Before learning about design issues in the network layer, let’s learn about it’s various functions. Addressing: Maintains the address at the frame header of both source and destination and performs addressing to detect various devices in network. Packeting: This is performed by Internet Protocol. The network layer converts the packets from its upper layer. Routing: It is the most important functionality. The network layer chooses the most relevant and best path for the data transmission from source to destination. Inter-networking: It works to deliver a logical connection across multiple devices. Network layer design issues: The network layer comes with some design issues they are described as follows: 1. Store and Forward packet switching: The host sends the packet to the nearest router. This packet is stored there until it has fully arrived once the link is fully processed by verifying the checksum then it is forwarded to the next router till it reaches the destination. This mechanism is called “Store and Forward packet switching.” 2. Services provided to Transport Layer: Through the network/transport layer interface, the network layer transfers it’s services to the transport layer. These services are described below. But before providing these services to the transfer layer following goals must be kept in mind :- Offering services must not depend on router technology. The transport layer needs to be protected from the type, number and topology of the available router. The network addresses for the transport layer should use uniform numbering pattern also at LAN and WAN connections. Based on the connections there are 2 types of services provided : Connectionless – The routing and insertion of packets into subnet is done individually. No added setup is required. Connection-Oriented – Subnet must offer reliable service and all the packets must be transmitted over a single route. 3. Implementation of Connectionless Service: Packet are termed as “datagrams” and corresponding subnet as “datagram subnets”. When the message size that has to be transmitted is 4 times the size of the packet, then the network layer divides into 4 packets and transmits each packet to router via. a few protocol.Each data packet has destination address and is routed independently irrespective of the packets. 4. Implementation of Connection Oriented service: To use a connection-oriented service, first we establishes a connection, use it and then release it. In connection-oriented services, the data packets are delivered to the receiver in the same order in which they have been sent by the sender. It can be done in either two ways : Circuit Switched Connection – A dedicated physical path or a circuit is established between the communicating nodes and then data stream is transferred. Virtual Circuit Switched Connection – The data stream is transferred over a packet switched network, in such a way that it seems to the user that there is a dedicated path from the sender to the receiver. A virtual path is established here. While, other connections may also be using the same path. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Recommended Posts: Design Issues of Distributed System Fragmentation at Network Layer Supernetting in Network Layer Traceroute in Network Layer Computer Networks | Network Layer | Question 1 Computer Networks | Network Layer | Question 2 Difference between Secure Socket Layer (SSL) and Transport Layer Security (TLS) Difference between layer-2 and layer-3 switches Cisco Discovery Protocol (CDP) and Link Layer Discovery Protocol (LLDP) in Data Link Layer Basic Network Attacks in Computer Network TCP and UDP in Transport Layer Transport Layer responsibilities Secure Socket Layer (SSL) Devices used in each layer of TCP/IP model Switch functions at layer 2 anushka2 Check out this Author's contributed articles. If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article using contribute.geeksforgeeks.org or mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks. Please Improve this article if you find anything incorrect by clicking on the "Improve Article" button below. Article Tags : Computer Networks GATE CS Computer Networks-Network Layer Practice Tags : Computer Networks thumb_up Be the First to upvote. To-do Done 0 No votes yet. Please write to us at contribute@geeksforgeeks.org to report any issue with the above content. Post navigation Previous first_page Difference between Preemptive and Non-preemptive CPU scheduling algorithms Next last_page Caching Page Tables Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments Most popular articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? Most visited in GATE CS C-LOOK Disk Scheduling Algorithm Variation of Turing Machine Which is better, the GRE or the GATE? Basic Blocks in Compiler Design Semantic Analysis in Compiler Design ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved