https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/page/30/ GeeksforGeeks | A computer science portal for geeks | Page 30 GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Write an Article Courses @ GeeksforGeeks Internships @ GeeksforGeeks Coding Practice How to write an Interview Experience? Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Must Do Coding Questions Topic-wise Basic Easy Medium Hard Expert Step by Step Preparation Company Preparation Top Topics Company Specific Practice Software Design Patterns Placements Preparation Course Interview Corner Recent Interview Experiences GQ Home Page Quiz Corner LMNs What's New ? Leaderboard !! Topic-wise Practice Subjective Problems Difficulty Level - School Difficulty Level - Basic Difficulty Level - Easy Difficulty Level - Medium Difficulty Level - Hard Explore More... C C++ Java Python SQL PHP JavaScript School Programming Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Engineering Mathematics Design Patterns Common Interview Puzzles Web Technology G-Facts Computer Graphics Image Processing Project Ideas Sum of all armstrong numbers lying in the range [L, R] for Q queries Given Q queries in the form of a 2D array arr[][] in which every row consists of two numbers L and R which denotes a… Read More » Mathematical Wheel Factorization Algorithm Given a number N. The task is to check if the given number is Prime Number or not. Examples: Input: N = 987 Output: Not… Read More » Algorithms C++ Programs Mathematical Prime Number Number of indices pair such that element pair sum from first Array is greater than second Array Given two integer arrays A[] and B[] of equal sizes, the task is to find the number of pairs of indices {i, j} in the… Read More » Arrays Greedy XOR and OR of all N-digit Armstrong numbers Given an integer N, the task is to find the XOR and OR values of all N-digit Armstrong numbers. Examples Input: N = 3 Output:… Read More » Mathematical number-digits Finding powers of any number P in N! Prerequisite: Print all prime factors and their powers Given natural numbers N and P, the task is to find the power of P in the… Read More » Algorithms Dynamic Programming Hash Mathematical factorial Perfect Cube Given a number N, the task is to check whether the given number N is a perfect cube or not. Examples: Input: N = 216… Read More » Mathematical maths-perfect-cube Check if given array can be made 0 with given operations performed any number of times Given an array arr[] containing N integers, the task is to find whether all the elements of the given array can be made 0 by… Read More » Arrays Mathematical Calculate sum of all integers from 1 to N, excluding perfect power of 2 Given a positive integer N, the task is to calculate the sum of all integers from 1 to N but excluding the number which is… Read More » Mathematical Largest and Smallest N-digit Octal Numbers Given an integer N, the task is to find the smallest and largest N-digit numbers in Octal Number System. Examples: Input: N = 4 Output:… Read More » Mathematical Strings number-digits Numbers Split array into K disjoint subarrays such that sum of each subarray is odd. 2 Given an array arr[] containing N elements, the task is to divide the array into K(1 ≤ K ≤ N) subarrays and such that the… Read More » Arrays subarray Largest Even and Odd N-digit numbers of base B Given an integer N and base B, the task is to find the largest Even and Odd N-digit numbers of Base B in decimal form.… Read More » Mathematical Boolean Fields in Serializers – Django REST Framework In Django REST Framework the very concept of Serializing is to convert DB data to a datatype that can be used by javascript. Every serializer… Read More » Python Django-REST rest-framework Sort an Array of Strings according to the number of Vowels in them Given an array arr[] of N strings, the task is to sort these strings according to the numbers of vowels in them. Examples: Input: arr[]… Read More » School Programming Sorting Strings vowel-consonant Using Matplotlib with Jupyter Notebook The Jupyter Notebook is an open-source web application that allows you to create and share documents that contain live code, equations, visualizations and narrative text.… Read More » Python Python-matplotlib Built-in Objects in Python-builtins This Python module provides direct access to all ‘built-in’ identifiers of Python. For example, builtins.open is the full name for the built-in function open(). This… Read More » Python python-modules Page 30 of 3,662« First«...1020...2829303132...405060...»Last » Most Popular Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? Most Visited Articles How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How Does Google Use Machine Learning? Most asked Computer Science Subjects Interview Questions in Amazon, Microsoft, Flipkart How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? How to Protect Yourself From Cyber Attacks? ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved