https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/category/data-structures/hash/ Hash Archives - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Check duplicates in a stream of strings Find missing elements from an Array Count equal element pairs in the given array Category Archives: Hash Maximum repeated frequency of characters in a given string Given a string S, the task is to find the count of maximum repeated frequency of characters in the given string S. Examples: Input: S… Read More » Algorithms Competitive Programming Hash Strings Technical Scripter Write From Home Count triplets such that sum of any two number is equal to third | Set 2 Given an array of distinct positive integers arr[] of length N, the task is to count all the triplets such that sum of two elements… Read More » Arrays Data Structures Hash Find Next number having distinct digits from the given number N Given a natural number N, the task is to find the next number having distinct digits from the given number. Examples: Input: N = 19… Read More » Analysis Data Structures Hash Mathematical Maximum length prefix such that frequency of each character is atmost number of characters with minimum frequency Given a string S, the task is to find the prefix of string S with the maximum possible length such that frequency of each character… Read More » Competitive Programming Hash Python Strings frequency-counting prefix Longest sub-array of Prime Numbers using Segmented Sieve Given an array arr[] of N integers, the task is to find the longest subarray where all numbers in that subarray are prime. Examples: Input:… Read More » Algorithms Arrays Data Structures Hash Mathematical Arrays Prime Number sieve Finding powers of any number P in N! Prerequisite: Print all prime factors and their powers Given natural numbers N and P, the task is to find the power of P in the… Read More » Algorithms Dynamic Programming Hash Mathematical factorial Find the frequencies of all duplicates elements in the array Given an array of integers with duplicate elements in it, the task is to find the duplicate elements in the array and their frequencies. Examples:… Read More » Arrays Hash Check if elements of array can be arranged in AP, GP or HP Given an array arr[] of N integers. The task is to check whether by arranging the elements of the array, is it possible to generate… Read More » Arrays Greedy Hash Mathematical Sorting Longest increasing sub-sequence formed by concatenating array to itself N times 2 Given an array arr[] of size N, the task is to find the length of the longest increasing subsequence in the array formed by the… Read More » Algorithms Arrays Greedy Hash LIS subsequence Count of sticks required to represent the given string Given a string str of uppercase alphabets and numbers, the task is to find the number of matchsticks required to represent it. Examples: Input: str… Read More » Hash Mathematical Strings CamelCase Pattern Matching 5 Given a list of words where each word follows CamelCase notation, the task is to print all words in the dictionary that match with a… Read More » Advanced Computer Subject Arrays Data Structures Hash Strings Vertical Order Traversal in Strings Given a string str consisting of multiple words separated by space, the task is to print the vertical order traversal of this string. Vertical order… Read More » Arrays Hash Strings Traversal Find smallest possible Number from a given large Number with same count of digits Given a number K of length N, the task is to find the smallest possible number that can be formed from K of N digits… Read More » Arrays Hash Mathematical large-numbers number-digits Print the most occurring character in an array of strings Given an array arr[] of lowercase strings, the task is to print the most occurring character in the set of strings. Examples: Input: arr[] =… Read More » Arrays Hash Strings Program to accept a Strings which contains all the Vowels Given a string S, the task is to check and accept the given string if it contains all vowels i.e. ‘a’, ‘e’, ‘i’.’o’, ‘u’ or… Read More » Arrays Hash Strings Page 1 of 3712345...102030...»Last » Most popular articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? Most visited articles I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How Does Google Use Machine Learning? Most asked Computer Science Subjects Interview Questions in Amazon, Microsoft, Flipkart How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved