https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-does-nasa-use-machine-learning/?ref=leftbar-rightbar How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Geek Week – Celebrate The Biggest Programming Festival With GeeksforGeeks I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? 7 Common Programming Principles That Every Developer Must Follow SOLID Principle in Programming: Understand With Real Life Examples How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How to Become a Data Analyst in 2019: A Complete Guide Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development 10 Famous Bugs in The Computer Science World How Does Google Use Machine Learning? Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 Which is better, the GRE or the GATE? How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? How to Protect Yourself From Cyber Attacks? Computer science, an overrated dream Graphene Batteries 10 Tips to Protect Your Online Data Privacy in 2019 Microsoft Windows (10) Vs macOS (Mojave) Interesting Funny Commands in Linux If we delete cookies of a site, we can still logged in without logging again How to Setup Burp Suite for Bug Bounty or Web Application Penetration Testing? Neuralink - A Brain-Computer Interface Technology How to use Emojis in Windows 10? Evolution of Foldable Smartphones Impact of IoT on CyberSecurity How to Transparently Overlaid Two Directories Using UnionFS in Linux? Benefits of Automated Cross-Browser Testing for Online Business Comparing Python with C and C++ How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? Do you ever look at the night sky and wonder what is beyond the stars? Do you ever wonder if there is life somewhere else in the universe? Do you want to travel to some faraway galaxy and find out the secrets of the universe?!! Well, all these questions are ones that NASA tries to solve on a daily basis. NASA is involved in all aspects of space ranging from studying Earth’s outer atmosphere to finding signs of life on other planets! And Machine Learning is a big part of this space discovery as it is a necessary tool in this data age. The amount of data generated by various NASA spacecraft and satellites is insane (As an example, consider that only the Sloan Digital Sky Survey will create more than 50 million images of galaxies in the future!) and hence Machine Learning is necessary to identify patterns in this data which will lead to exciting new discoveries in the future! And that’s not all! Machine Learning can also be used to monitor astronaut health in space, handle the spacecraft repairs intelligently, discover more planets in other galaxies and other fantastic things!!! In fact, when it comes to Space and Machine Learning, not even the sky’s the limit!!! So now, let’s see some of the existing or in-progress applications of Machine Learning for NASA so that you can better understand the scope of this fantastic technology in space exploration and also get an idea of its future applications. 1. Self-Driving Rovers on Mars – The Spirit and Opportunity Rovers Did you think that Tesla, Google, Uber, etc. were the first ones to heavily invest in self-driving cars? Well, think again!!! In fact, NASA had created the technology for autonomous driving for Mars Rovers almost a decade ago. A Machine Learning based navigation and driving system for self-driving Mars rovers known as AutoNav was actually used in the Spirit and Opportunity rovers which landed on Mars as early as 2004. Another rover launched in 2011, Curiosity also uses Autonav and it is a rover that is still exploring Mars till date with the mission of finding water and other factors that might make Mars suitable for human exploration in the future! Now you would think that driving on Mars is comparatively easier than driving on the congested roads of Earth. But it’s not so easy! While AutoNav does not have to worry about the rover hitting other vehicles or humans (There is no life found on Mars yet!), the surface of Mars is very rocky so the navigation system has to make sure that the rover does not hit rocks or slippery sand dunes that would trap it permanently. NASA Mars Curiosity Rover Image Source – NASA Another application of Machine Learning in the Mars rovers is an algorithm called AEGIS (Autonomous Exploration for Gathering Increased Science) which identifies martian rock formations that might be interesting on its own by using Machine Learning This is because the rover cannot send all the pictures of Mars it snaps back on Earth because there is only limited communication possible. So AEGIS decides which pictures might be interesting or important and then the rover sends them back on Earth for the NASA scientists to study. 2. Medicine in Space – Exploration Medical Capability (ExMC) Now that astronauts are moving further and further into space beyond the Earth orbit, what will happen if they need medical help? They will obviously not be able to return to Earth for a check-up with a doctor! For this reason, NASA is working on Exploration Medical Capability that will use Machine Learning to develop healthcare options based on the anticipated future medical needs of the astronauts. These healthcare options will be created by certified doctors and surgeons and they will learn and evolve with time according to the astronaut experiences. Exploration Medical Capability – This is how the interior of a future medical habitat in space might look Image Source – NASA All in all, the main aim of the Exploration Medical Capability is that astronauts stay fit and healthy in space (Especially on long and far-away missions). And unlike what comic books tell you about space, some of the common health risks associated with space travel are radiation hazards, harsh environmental challenges, issues due to gravitational changes, etc. In these situations, the astronauts cannot directly contact doctors on Earth as there is a time-lag and so the ExMC uses machine learning to provide self-reliant autonomous medical care with the help of remote medical technologies. 3. Finding Other Planets in the Universe – Planetary Spectrum Generator I am sure I don’t need to tell you that the universe is huge! NASA believes that there are around 100 billion stars in the galaxy and out of them about 40 billion may have life. This is not science fiction, NASA actually believes we may find aliens one day! But for discovering aliens, NASA first needs to discover more and more new planets in different solar systems. Once these exoplanets are discovered, then NASA measures the atmospheric spectrum of these planets to find if there is any possibility of life. While these steps are complicated enough, the problem is that there is no real data available for experimentation! So NASA scientists just generate the required data and that’s where Machine Learning comes in. The Planetary Spectrum Generator is a tool that NASA uses to create 3-D orbits and atmospheric properties of the exoplanets they find. To create a working model for the solar system, scientists use linear regression as well as convolutional neural networks. Then further fine-tuning is conducted on the model before it is ready for training. Image Source – NASA The above image demonstrates the results generated for an exoplanet that demonstrate the amount of water and methane in the atmosphere. As you can see in the CH4 and H2O graph, the black lines denote the predictions that were made using Machine Learning and the red lines indicate the actual findings. As you can see the trained ML model is quite accurate in this situation! 4. A Robotic Astronaut – The Robonaut Did you think that astronauts could only be humans?!! Well, normally you would be right but NASA has developed a robotic astronaut now. Science fiction is finally coming true! The Robonaut was primarily developed to work alongside the astronauts in space and help them in completing tasks that were quite dangerous for humans. This was necessary as it would increase NASA’s capacity for research and discovery in space which would, in turn, allow us to learn more about the solar system. Robonaut onboard the International Space Station Image Source – NASA As you can see from this image, Robonaut is now an essential helper in space! To achieve this, Robonaut basically uses Machine Learning to “think” for itself. So the scientists or astronauts can give tasks to the Robonaut and it figures out how to perform them. In general, Eobonaut also has many advantages over normal humans like advanced sensors, insanely high speeds, compact design, and much higher flexibility. There is a lot of advanced technology that was used to develop Robonaut which includes touch sensors at its finger-tips, full neck travel range, high-resolution camera, and Infra-Red systems, advanced finger and thumb movement, etc. 5. Navigation on the Moon – Deep Learning Planetary Navigation What would happen if you got lost on Earth? Well, nothing much! You could just use GPS to reach your destination without a problem. But what if you got lost on the Moon?! Well, you’d better hope someone finds you because GPS doesn’t work on the moon! Or at least it didn’t until now!!! Currently, the NASA Frontier Development Lab is working on a project to provide navigation on the surface of celestial bodies including the moon! This project basically aims to provide GPS even on the lunar surface, just without using multiple very expensive satellites! And that is not an easy task keeping in mind the rocky and barren lunar surface: Image Source – NASA This is done by feeding a Machine Learning System lot’s of images of the moon (2.4 million in this case which luckily NASA already has!) and then creating a virtual version of the moon using neural networks. Then if you are lost on the Moon, you can take images of your surroundings and the Machine Learning System will be able to triangulate your location on the moon by comparing your images with the already created image database of the lunar surface that constitutes the virtual moon. While this technique isn’t perfect (yet!), it is still much better than anything already available and can be used on any planetary surface, not just the moon. And NASA is already hopeful that it can be used on Mars next just in case anybody gets lost on the red planet! My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Recommended Posts: Learning Model Building in Scikit-learn : A Python Machine Learning Library Artificial intelligence vs Machine Learning vs Deep Learning Azure Virtual Machine for Machine Learning How to Start Learning Machine Learning? Machine Learning in C++ ML | What is Machine Learning ? What is AutoML in Machine Learning? How Does Google Use Machine Learning? Firebase Machine Learning kit Machine Learning - Applications Demystifying Machine Learning Getting started with Machine Learning Machine Learning | Outlier An introduction to Machine Learning Stacking in Machine Learning harkiran78 Check out this Author's contributed articles. If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article using contribute.geeksforgeeks.org or mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks. Please Improve this article if you find anything incorrect by clicking on the "Improve Article" button below. Article Tags : GBlog Machine Learning Practice Tags : Machine Learning thumb_up 5 To-do Done 5 Based on 1 vote(s) Please write to us at contribute@geeksforgeeks.org to report any issue with the above content. Post navigation Previous first_page Firebase Machine Learning kit Next last_page Microsoft Windows (10) Vs macOS (Mojave) Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments Most popular articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Convert Directed Graph into a Tree Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? Most visited in Machine Learning Deploy Machine Learning Model using Flask Python | Classify Handwritten Digits with Tensorflow ML | Word Encryption using Keras Python | Single Point Crossover in Genetic Algorithm ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved