https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-make-your-work-from-home-more-productive/ How to Make Your Work From Home More Productive? - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Geek Week – Celebrate The Biggest Programming Festival With GeeksforGeeks I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? 7 Common Programming Principles That Every Developer Must Follow SOLID Principle in Programming: Understand With Real Life Examples How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development 10 Famous Bugs in The Computer Science World How Does Google Use Machine Learning? How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 Which is better, the GRE or the GATE? How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? How to Protect Yourself From Cyber Attacks? Computer science, an overrated dream Microsoft Windows (10) Vs macOS (Mojave) 10 Tips to Protect Your Online Data Privacy in 2019 Interesting Funny Commands in Linux If we delete cookies of a site, we can still logged in without logging again How to Setup Burp Suite for Bug Bounty or Web Application Penetration Testing? Neuralink - A Brain-Computer Interface Technology Evolution of Foldable Smartphones Impact of IoT on CyberSecurity How to Transparently Overlaid Two Directories Using UnionFS in Linux? Benefits of Automated Cross-Browser Testing for Online Business Brain Machine Interface (BMI) How to Make Your Work From Home More Productive? A lot of people fantasize about working from the comfort of their own home and people are also getting this opportunity due to some circumstances like the Coronavirus which is happening right now in the world. Some people are getting to do work from home and they are happy with it thinking about a lot of perks. It sounds good because you can work in your pajamas, in bed and no one is watching you during that time, however, it’s easy for you to become your own worst enemy. Because when you’re not surrounded by coworkers, you’re free to drop those pesky inhibitions. A lot of people start realizing that their personal life and professional life are conflicting with each other. It happens with most of the people due to the boundaries they don’t set between personal and professional life. Over time things become messy, you don’t have any schedule or any routine, you don’t stay motivated, you are not organized and you don’t become productive even after spending your whole day working from home in your comfort zone. This is a serious problem and it can make you more frustrated, stressed out and anxious. The opposite thing can also happen when you work too much, focus too hard and start getting burned out. Both of the cases lower down the productivity of any employee. The key to overcome both of these challenges is to set the boundaries around your time and space. So when you’re working, you are working and when you’re not working, you’re not.. Let’s discuss some tips to boost your productivity while working from home… 1. Get Started Early In-office your morning commute can help you wake up and feel ready to work by the time you get to your desk but at the home transition from your pillow to your computer can be much more jarring. Set up an alarm, wake up at the same time every day, do some exercise or workout and have your breakfast. These things boost up the mood and prepare you for the day to get your job done. It makes you more energetic and productive. If it’s possible, get dressed properly just like you do for your office. It’s so easy to wear the same pajamas all day, not to get ready and start working instantly. When you dress up properly your subconscious mind sends a signal to your brain that now you’re ready to do your work instead of lying in your pajamas, being lazy and heading towards Netflix or television anytime. When you change your clothes and get ready for your work, you feel more positive, energetic and good about yourself. 2. Designate a Workspace Where you work matters. Give yourself a dedicated workspace away from all the distractions. Instead of cooping yourself up in your room or on the couch — spaces that are associated with leisure time — dedicate a specific room or surface in your home to work. Choose a separate space away from the TV, away from the music or kitchen. One thing which is helpful to avoid distractions is to shut the door. Also, when you dedicate a workspace for yourself make sure you have everything there which you need for your work. Your laptop, your camera, notepad, pen, charger, headphone or some other stuff. When you have a designated workspace it makes you feel that you have a little office in your home. When you walk into that space you subconsciously know this is my work zone and I am turning on for my work right now. 3. Make A Schedule and Stick To It Set a designated time that you are going to work. It may sound silly but during that schedule, you have to pretend that you’re not at home. You can start in the morning by 9:00-10:00 am and finish it by 6:00-7:00 pm. Whatever time you decide make sure that you stick to it. You must know what is acceptable and what is not acceptable to do during office hours. For example, when you’re at work you’re not gonna play with your dog, watch Netflix or cook in the kitchen or doing some other household chores. The most important thing quit at quitting time even if you are in the middle of the project put it down. This will help you to be more organized and it will make you more productive as well. 4. Make A To-Do Lists Remember that when you’re working from home, you’re your manager. So you must break up your fixed schedule with a simple todo list. It helps in being organized and productive especially when you’re overwhelmed with so may stuff. List out the task in your notepad or somewhere in your laptop which you are supposed to do during your whole fixed schedule. Also, make sure that you set a priority to every task you have listed down in your to-do list. For example, you can make a list of 3-5 tasks and give them ranking one by one. Divide your time according to that and go one by one. Try to find out the most productive hour in your schedule and you can prioritize your most difficult task during that time. Well, it depends on you how do you want to prioritize your task. 5. Take Breaks Taking a break while doing work from home is as important as you take breaks in your office. Take lunch breaks at a fixed time and also take a shorter break like having some coffee, having your little tiny snacks or you can just open your window to get some fresh air or sunlight. If you avoid breaks you will be exhausted, overwhelmed and burn out. Rather than just opening YouTube and watching some comfort clips, use your breaks to get away from your desk. You can go for 10-15 minutes’ walk or you can do some 5-7 minutes chitchat with others who might also be in the house. You can set timers for your break or you can follow Pomodoro Technique to stay organized and more productive. 6. Set Boundaries With Other People at Home Working from home with roommates, friends or family present can be challenging. When you live with other people the separation is really difficult. It’s also a common misconception that remote work means you’re hardly working. Most people don’t realize you work from home unless you tell them, so tell everyone clearly who’s home with you that you’ll be working during certain hours and to not disturb you unless it’s an emergency. Communicate with the people you live with to establish boundaries and to avoid any interruption. If your kids are at home, let them know that when it’s okay to come in. You can put a sign on your door or you can use light outside your room on the door to give them a signal. 7. Be Real With Yourself For most people, the difficult thing while working from home is to avoid the usage of their phones and social media. While doing your work it’s easy to switch to the other tabs frequently and get into it. You continuously procrastinate and put things off to later in the day or first thing tomorrow morning because you are not bound by office hours. So deep down it’s important to understand that when you are actively working and when you are just passing your time on other stuff on your laptop. People who have a job on social media also need to understand that when they are working and when they are scrolling, watching and reading some other random stuff not related to the work. There is no point to sit in front of your laptop for eight hours and use your phone or other websites frequently instead of committed to your work. This sign clearly shows that you are not being productive. So be genuine to yourself and be loyal to your work. Your mind should know clearly that when you’re procrastinating and when you’re working. You don’t believe in a fact but if you work smartly you can get your whole work done within just three hours. All you just need to do is to sit and do it. You can also use some useful tools and apps like Gmail, Google Docs, Google Drive, Slack, Stack Overflow for Teams, Github for developers, Trello for managing the task, Skype for video conversations, Invision and Hangouts. These are some online handful tools available to help you while working from home. Harvest, RescueTime, Toggl, Forest are also some useful time management apps that helps in tracking your time and managing your breaks. These tools helps in making your work easier and boosting your productivity. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Recommended Posts: Future of home automation Write From Home Challenge - Technical Content Writing Event By GeeksforGeeks How do Web Servers work? How Does the Blockchain Work? How Do Search Engines Work? Proof of Work (PoW) Consensus How does Ripple Protocol Consensus Algorithm work ? 13 Study Tips For Students - Smart Work is the Key of Success What is WannaCry? How does WannaCry ransomware work? Do you want to make your own games? Do You Want to Make Career in Networking? Which language should you learn first if you want to make an app? How to make Storage Partition on Cloud How to make a website using WordPress (Part - 1) How to make a website using WordPress (Part – 2) anuupadhyay Check out this Author's contributed articles. If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article using contribute.geeksforgeeks.org or mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks. Please Improve this article if you find anything incorrect by clicking on the "Improve Article" button below. Article Tags : GBlog thumb_up Be the First to upvote. To-do Done 0 No votes yet. Please write to us at contribute@geeksforgeeks.org to report any issue with the above content. Post navigation Previous first_page Shift Left Testing approach Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments Most popular articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Goldman Sachs Interview Experience (Off Campus) Impact of IoT on CyberSecurity Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 Most Visited Articles How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How Does Google Use Machine Learning? ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved