https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/i-dont-like-coding-what-should-i-do-to-get-a-job-in-it/?ref=leftbar-rightbar I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Geek Week – Celebrate The Biggest Programming Festival With GeeksforGeeks What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? 7 Common Programming Principles That Every Developer Must Follow SOLID Principle in Programming: Understand With Real Life Examples How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How to Become a Data Analyst in 2019: A Complete Guide Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development 10 Famous Bugs in The Computer Science World How Does Google Use Machine Learning? How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 Which is better, the GRE or the GATE? How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? How to Protect Yourself From Cyber Attacks? Computer science, an overrated dream Graphene Batteries 10 Tips to Protect Your Online Data Privacy in 2019 Microsoft Windows (10) Vs macOS (Mojave) Interesting Funny Commands in Linux If we delete cookies of a site, we can still logged in without logging again How to Setup Burp Suite for Bug Bounty or Web Application Penetration Testing? Neuralink - A Brain-Computer Interface Technology How to use Emojis in Windows 10? Evolution of Foldable Smartphones Impact of IoT on CyberSecurity How to Transparently Overlaid Two Directories Using UnionFS in Linux? Benefits of Automated Cross-Browser Testing for Online Business Comparing Python with C and C++ I don’t like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? Do you actually need to know how to code to work in tech ? When you were a kid you might have thought that you would become a cricketer or painter or musician or writer and a lot like that. When you grew up your dreams changed and you wanted to become something else and later when you had the choice to hit the college you become confused about your career and you didn’t know where you actually stood or what you wanted to become in your life. So as everyone does, you followed what others and your parents asked to follow… Engineering. Why? because according to everyone this one is a safe, secure and high paying job. This is the story of most of the engineering student but the question is do you really enjoy coding…?? For some people, programming is fun, enjoyable and outstanding if they love to code, fix the bug and solve the problems but there are some people who really think it sucks and programming is not for them. But now what…??? you are graduate, not good at coding but you want a job in tech. A common myth between a lot of students is you need to know how to code if you want to work in tech. Let’s break this myth and we will tell you some career options in tech where you don’t need to scratch your brain to use all those programming loops or function or coding logic. 1. User Experience Designer: UX designers are responsible for creating a positive experience for the user and their primary goal is working on user satisfaction with the product. They make sure that the overall experience while interacting with a website should be easy to understand for a user. This job requires creativity, a lot of research and empathy, also UX designers are responsible to pass wireframes to the developers so they can understand how to develop a website. Average Salary of UX Designers: Rs 8,82,655/yr. Check pay on Glassdoor 2. User Interface Designer: If you love exploring website designings and you get attracted to it then this role is definitely for you. As a UI designer, your primary responsibility would be designing a website and deciding the look and feel of it. You will be using some graphics tools, photoshop, and other techniques to decide colors, images, layouts and other elements of a website. Average Salary of UI Designers: Rs 535,336/yr. Check pay on Glassdoor 3. Data Analyst: Tech companies have plenty of data related to their businesses and somebody has to gather it, extract it, analyze it and also manage it. This role requires mainly knowledge of SQL or hive or pig (any querying language), Microsoft Excel, and even Google analytics to organize a large set of data. A lot of data analyst knows statistical programming languages like Python or R which is also heavily used in this role. If you love Maths, Statistics and have analytical skills to compile and manage a large set of data then go for it. Average Salary of Data Analyst: Rs 509,142/yr. Check pay on Glassdoor 4. SEO (Search Engine Optimization) Specialist: An SEO expert job role focuses on improving and optimizing the website ranking in search engines for example on Google. SEO team works mainly with developers, web designers and content team in order to make sure that the right keywords are in the right places for higher ranking in search engines. Average Salary of SEO Specialist: Rs 339,113/yr. Check pay on Glassdoor 5. Web Analytics Specialist: Web analytics job role involves examining the traffic of users who are coming to your web page. Web analytics job relates to SEO and digital marketing and here specialist works to grab the attention of users. They focus on user experience visualization through Google Analytics and site change monitoring with A/B testing. Average Salary of Web Analytics Specialist: Rs 547,978/yr. Check pay on Glassdoor 6. Growth Hacker: Growth Hackers also known as user acquisition specialist because their job role involves combining marketing, business development, and technology in order to acquire users. They follow a lot of strategies and constantly test it, they do a lot of experiments and use their creativity to gain more and more users or for better result. Based on the response they take the decision to tweak or discard the plan and that’s the reason flexibility is important in this job. Growth Hackers work closely with the marketing, sales, engineering, and product management team. Average Salary of Growth Hacker: Rs. 7,01,682/yr. Check pay on Glassdoor 7. Product Managers: When a company has a product, somebody has to plan and constantly think about the product to make it better, that’s what product managers do, for example how to make a better version of a cellphone. Product managers also come up with new product ideas. Their job role involves proper strategy or plan where leadership is one of the essential skills need to have in order to manage the product and to communicate with the team who is working on developing the product. Average Salary of Product Managers: Rs 1,600K/yr. Check pay on Glassdoor 8. Technical Writing: If you love writing the tech assignments or about the complex technologies in your day to day life then this role is suitable for you. Your job role may involve preparing the tech content or creating instruction and documentation for the company product or technology. If you love to read tech blogs, understand the technology and ability to communicate effectively through your writing then choosing this field is the right option for you. Average Salary of Technical Writer: Rs. 620,716/yr. Check pay on Glassdoor 9. Software Testing: Software quality tester works closely with developers to check if the software meets specifications and requirements or not. They put the program through a variety of tests and check all kinds of bugs, errors, and quality of software or product before releasing it in the market. If they find something that doesn’t work as expected they inform the developers to fix the problem. Software tester uses some automation tools and techniques to find bugs and errors. Here you need to keep in mind that automated testing requires some coding knowledge but not for manual testing. Average Salary of Software Tester: Rs 360,840/yr. Check pay on Glassdoor 10. Network Engineer/Administrator: As the name suggests that the network engineers are responsible for configuring, maintaining and monitoring day to day operation of computer networks, organizations rely on. It involves checking recovery options, keeping backup of data, troubleshooting, diagnosing and resolving the network or system-related problems. Network engineers work on access points, firewalls, routers, switches, controllers and other networking stuff. Average Salary of Network Engineer: Rs 387,795/yr. Check pay on Glassdoor My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Recommended Posts: Geeks Coding Challenge [GCC 2019] - A Three Day Coding Challenge By GeeksforGeeks Secure coding - What is it all about? Why Should I Learn Coding? Coding the Financial Market Coding Standards and Guidelines How To Approach A Coding Problem ? Building App For Google Assistant Without Any Coding Coding good - Important criterias How to answer a coding question in an Interview? Practice for cracking any coding interview 7 Best Coding Challenge Websites in 2020 Programming For Beginners: 10 Best HTML Coding Practices You Must Know Coderita - Online Coding Competition For Women By GeeksforGeeks Become Leader of Coding Era - GeeksforGeeks Campus Ambassador Program anuupadhyay Check out this Author's contributed articles. If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article using contribute.geeksforgeeks.org or mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks. Please Improve this article if you find anything incorrect by clicking on the "Improve Article" button below. Article Tags : GBlog Career-Advices thumb_up 19 To-do Done 3.7 Based on 4 vote(s) Please write to us at contribute@geeksforgeeks.org to report any issue with the above content. Post navigation Previous first_page How to Transparently Overlaid Two Directories Using UnionFS in Linux? Next last_page Which is better, the GRE or the GATE? Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments Most popular articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Convert Directed Graph into a Tree Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? Most Visited Articles I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? How to Become a Data Analyst in 2019: A Complete Guide What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide Minimum characters that are to be inserted such that no three consecutive characters are same ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved