https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/levels-of-memories-in-operating-system/ Levels of Memories in Operating System - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Sorting larger file with smaller RAM Levels of Memories in Operating System Memory hierarchy of a computer system it handles differences in speed. “Hierarchy” is a great way to say “order of thinks” like top to bottom, fast to slow, most important to least important. If you look at the memory hierarchy inside the computer, according to the fastest to the slowest: 1. CPU Registers
2. Caches memory
3. Main or Primary Memory
4. Secondary Memory These are explained as following below. CPU Register: These high speed registers in CPU serve as working memory for instruction and temporary storage of data. Typically, they create a general purpose register file to store data as it is processed. The capacity of 32 data words is typical of a register file, and each register can be read or written from within a single clock cycle. Caches Memory: Now a days, most computers contain another level of IC memory- sometimes several such levels- Known as cache memory, that is positioned logically between the CPU registers and main memory. storage capacity of a cache is less than of main memory, but with an access time of one to three cycles, the cache is much faster than main memory because some or all of it can reside on the same IC as the CPU. For high performance computers, caches are essential components. Unlike the other three types of memory, the cache is usually transparent to programmers. Simultaneously, a computes cache and main memory implement directly mapped external memory by the instructions of the CPU. Main or Primary Memory: It is large, fairly fast external memory, which stores programs and data in active use. in main memory, storage locations are addressed directly by the load and store instruction of the CPU. While an IC Technology similar to that of a CPU register file is used, access is slower is due to large capacity of main memory and the fact that it is physically separated from the CPU. Access time of five or more clock cycles are usual. Secondary Memory: Secondary memory is very large in capacity but much slower than memory. Secondary memory store system programs, large data files, and the like are not consistently required by the CPU. When the capacity of the main memory. in secondary storage, information is considered on line, but is accessed indirectly through I/O programs that transfer information between main and secondary memory. The most and common examples of secondary memory are magnetic hard disks and CD-ROMs (compact discs only read memories), both of which have relatively slow electrical access mechanisms. Storage capacity of several gigabytes is typical, while access time is measured in milliseconds. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Recommended Posts: Levels in a File Management System System Protection in Operating System Paging in Operating System Segmentation in Operating System Thread in Operating System Introduction of Operating System - Set 1 Functions of Operating System Multithreading in Operating System Best-Fit Allocation in Operating System Inode in Operating System Kernel I/O Subsystem in Operating System Comparison on using Java for an Operating System instead of C Boot Block in Operating System Banker's Algorithm in Operating System Multilevel Paging in Operating System rajkumarupadhyay515 Check out this Author's contributed articles. If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article using contribute.geeksforgeeks.org or mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks. Please Improve this article if you find anything incorrect by clicking on the "Improve Article" button below. Article Tags : Computer Organization & Architecture GATE CS Operating Systems Write From Home Practice Tags : Operating Systems thumb_up 1 To-do Done 0 No votes yet. Please write to us at contribute@geeksforgeeks.org to report any issue with the above content. Post navigation Previous first_page Difference between Seek Time and Rotational Latency in Disk Scheduling Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments Most popular articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? Most visited in GATE CS C-LOOK Disk Scheduling Algorithm Variation of Turing Machine Difference between Secure Socket Layer (SSL) and Secure Electronic Transaction (SET) Which is better, the GRE or the GATE? Basic Blocks in Compiler Design ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved