https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/maths-cube/ maths-cube Archives - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Tag Archives: maths-cube Print N numbers such that their product is a Perfect Cube Given a number N, the task is to find distinct N numbers such that their product is a perfect cube. Examples: Input: N = 3… Read More » Mathematical School Programming maths-cube maths-perfect-cube Natural Numbers Perfect Cube String Given a String str, the task is to check the sum of ASCII values of all characters in this string is a perfect cube or… Read More » Mathematical Strings maths-cube Sum of cubes of all Subsets of given Array Given an array arr[], the task is to calculate the sum of cubes of all possible non-empty subsets of the given array. Since, the answer… Read More » Arrays Mathematical maths-cube subset Check whether N can be a Perfect Cube after adding or subtracting K Given two integers N and K, the task is to check whether N can be made a perfect cube after adding to or subtracting from… Read More » Mathematical maths-cube Maximum given sized rectangles that can be cut out of a sheet of paper Given the length L and breadth B of a sheet of paper, the task is to find the maximum number of rectangles with given length… Read More » Geometric Mathematical maths-cube square-rectangle Smallest perfect Cube divisible by all elements of an array Given an array arr[], the task is to find the smallest perfect cube which is divisible by all the elements of the given array. Examples:… Read More » Arrays Mathematical GCD-LCM maths-cube Count numbers upto N which are both perfect square and perfect cube 3.2 Given a number N. The task is to count total numbers under N which are both perfect square and cube of some integers. Examples: Input:… Read More » Mathematical maths-cube maths-perfect-square number-theory Technical Scripter 2018 Largest number in an array that is not a perfect cube 1 Given an array of n integers. The task is to find the largest number which is not a perfect cube. Print -1 if there is… Read More » Algorithms Arrays Mathematical Technical Scripter maths-cube Technical Scripter 2018 Largest perfect cube number in an Array 1 Given an array of N integers. The task is to find the largest number which is a perfect cube. Print -1 if there is no… Read More » Arrays Technical Scripter maths-cube Technical Scripter 2018 Perfect cube greater than a given number Given a number N, the task is to find the next perfect cube greater than N. Examples: Input: N = 6 Output: 8 8 is… Read More » Mathematical maths-cube Program to count number of distinct Squares and Cubes upto N 2 Given a number N, the task is to find No. of perfect Squares and perfect Cubes from 1 to a given integer, N ( Both… Read More » Mathematical School Programming CPP-Functions cpp-math maths-cube maths-perfect-square Cubes 3.1 A type of cuboid in which all the sides i.e length, breadth & height are equal. All faces of cubes are of the same area.… Read More » Engineering Mathematics Placements maths-cube placement preparation Centered cube number Given a number n, find the n-th centered cube number. The Centered cube number counts the number of points which are formed by a point… Read More » Geometric Mathematical maths-cube series Find the Largest Cube formed by Deleting minimum Digits from a number 4.5 Given a number n, the task is to find the largest perfect cube that can be formed by deleting minimum digits(possibly 0) from the number.… Read More » Competitive Programming Greedy Mathematical Technical Scripter maths-cube Cube Free Numbers smaller than n 2 A cube free number square free number whose none of any divisor is a cubic number (a number which is cube of an integer). Given… Read More » Mathematical maths-cube number-theory sieve Page 1 of 3123» Most Popular Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? Most Visited Articles How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How Does Google Use Machine Learning? Most asked Computer Science Subjects Interview Questions in Amazon, Microsoft, Flipkart How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? How to Protect Yourself From Cyber Attacks? ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved