https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/natural-numbers/ Natural Numbers Archives - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Count number of ways to arrange first N numbers Tag Archives: Natural Numbers Print N numbers such that their product is a Perfect Cube Given a number N, the task is to find distinct N numbers such that their product is a perfect cube. Examples: Input: N = 3… Read More » Mathematical School Programming maths-cube maths-perfect-cube Natural Numbers Product of all Subsets of a set formed by first N natural numbers Given a number N, the task is to find the product of all the elements from all possible subsets of a set formed by first… Read More » Mathematical Natural Numbers subset Sum of alternating sign Squares of first N natural numbers Given a number N, the task is to find the sum of alternating sign squares of first N natural numbers, i.e., 12 – 22 +… Read More » Mathematical maths-perfect-square Natural Numbers Fill the missing numbers in the array of N natural numbers such that arr[i] not equal to i 4 Given an unsorted array arr[] consisting of N natural numbers and the missing numbers as 0 such that arr[i] ≠ i, the task is to… Read More » Arrays Mathematical Technical Scripter Natural Numbers Technical Scripter 2019 Minimum number of swaps required to sort an array of first N number 3 Given an array arr[] of distinct integers from 1 to N. The task is to find the minimum number of swaps required to sort the… Read More » Arrays Sorting Natural Numbers Count possible combinations of pairs with adjacent elements from first N numbers Given a number N, the task is to count all possible combinations of pairs formed using adjacent elements. Note: If an element exists already in… Read More » Algorithms Competitive Programming Recursion Technical Scripter Natural Numbers Length of Smallest subarray in range 1 to N with sum greater than a given value 2 Given two numbers N and S, the task is to find the length of smallest subarray in range (1, N) such that the sum of… Read More » Arrays Mathematical Technical Scripter Binary Search Natural Numbers subarray Technical Scripter 2019 Number of valid indices in the permutation of first N natural numbers Given a permutation P of first N natural numbers. The task is to find the number of i’s such that Pi ≤ Pj for all… Read More » Mathematical Natural Numbers permutation Count set bits in the Kth number after segregating even and odd from N natural numbers Given two integers N and K, the task is to find the count of set bits in the Kth number in the Odd-Even sequence made… Read More » Arrays Greedy Mathematical Natural Numbers setBitCount Count of elements which are second smallest among three consecutive elements Given a permutation P of first N natural numbers. The task is to find the number of elements Pi such that Pi is second smallest… Read More » Mathematical Natural Numbers Increasing permutation of first N natural numbers Given a permutation {P1, P2, P3, ….. PN) of first N natural numbers. The task is to check if it is possible to make the… Read More » Mathematical Natural Numbers permutation Maximum LCM among all pairs (i, j) of first N natural numbers Given a positive integer N > 1, the task is to find the maximum LCM among all the pairs (i, j) such that i <… Read More » Mathematical LCM Natural Numbers Count number of ways to arrange first N numbers 3.5 Count number of ways to arrange the first N natural numbers in a line such that the left-most number is always 1 and no two… Read More » Dynamic Programming Mathematical Recursion Natural Numbers Find the permutation of first N natural numbers such that sum of i % Pi is maximum possible Given a number N. The task is to find the permutation P of first N natural numbers such that sum of i % Pi is… Read More » Mathematical Natural Numbers permutation Repeated sum of first N natural numbers Given two integers N and K, the task is to find the sum of first N natural numbers then update N as the previously calculated… Read More » Mathematical Natural Numbers Page 1 of 212» Most Popular Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? Most Visited Articles How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How Does Google Use Machine Learning? Most asked Computer Science Subjects Interview Questions in Amazon, Microsoft, Flipkart How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? How to Protect Yourself From Cyber Attacks? ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved