https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/numbers/ Numbers Archives - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Find the previous fibonacci number Count of N-bit binary numbers without leading zeros Check whether the given integers a, b, c and d are in proportion Random list of M non-negative integers whose sum is N Program to find Nth odd Fibonacci Number Sum of all the numbers present at given level in Pascal's triangle Represent the given number as the sum of two composite numbers Tag Archives: Numbers Print a pair of numbers with the given Sum and Product Given a sum S and product P, the task is to print any pair of integers which has the sum S and the product P.… Read More » Mathematical School Programming Numbers root Dixon’s Factorization Method with implementation Dixon’s Factorization method is an integer factorization algorithm. In this article, this method is explained to find the factors of a composite number. Dixon Factorization… Read More » Algorithms Mathematical factor number-theory Numbers Find any K distinct odd integers such that there sum is equal to N Given two integers N and K, the task is to find any K distinct odd integers such that their sum is equal to N. If… Read More » Mathematical Numbers Largest and Smallest N-digit Octal Numbers Given an integer N, the task is to find the smallest and largest N-digit numbers in Octal Number System. Examples: Input: N = 4 Output:… Read More » Mathematical Strings number-digits Numbers Sort the Array by reversing the numbers in it Given an array arr[] of N non-negative integers, the task is to sort these integers according to their reverse Examples: Input: arr[] = {12, 10,… Read More » Arrays Mathematical Sorting Numbers Find Maximum and Minimum of two numbers using Absolute function Given two numbers, the task is to print the maximum and minimum of the given numbers using Absolute function. Examples: Input: 99, 18 Output: Maximum… Read More » Mathematical School Programming Technical Scripter Numbers Technical Scripter 2019 Check if a number has prime count of divisors Given an integer N, the task is to check if the count of divisors of N is prime or not. Examples: Input: N = 13… Read More » Competitive Programming Technical Scripter Numbers prime-factor Technical Scripter 2019 Sum of all N digit palindrome numbers 2 Given a number N. The task is to find the sum of all N digit palindromes. Examples: Input: N = 2 Output: 495 Explanation: 11… Read More » Mathematical Numbers palindrome Minimum operations to make two numbers equal Given two numbers n and m, the task is to find the minimum number of operations required to make them equal if the following operations… Read More » Greedy Mathematical arithmetic progression Numbers Remove two consecutive integers from 1 to N to make sum equal to S Given a sum S and an integer N, The task is to remove two consecutive integers from 1 to N to make sum equal to… Read More » Mathematical Numbers Find two Composite Numbers such that there difference is N Given a number N, the task is to find two composite numbers X and Y, such that difference between them is equal to N. Note… Read More » C++ Programs Mathematical Numbers Check if the sum of digits of N is palindrome 2.7 Given an integer N, the task is to check whether the sum of digits of N is palindrome or not. Example: Input: N = 56… Read More » Algorithms Mathematical Technical Scripter Numbers palindrome Find all the possible remainders when N is divided by all positive integers from 1 to N+1 4 Given a large integer N, the task is to find all the possible remainders when N is divided by all the positive integers from 1… Read More » Algorithms Competitive Programming Mathematical Programming Language Number Divisibility Numbers Check if a given number is factorial of any number Given a number n, the task is to determine whether n can be a factorial of some number x Examples: Input: N = 24 Output:… Read More » Mathematical School Programming factorial Numbers Compare numbers represented by Linked Lists Given the pointers to the head nodes of two linked lists. The task is to compare the numbers represented by the linked lists. The numbers… Read More » Linked List Mathematical Numbers Page 1 of 1312345...10...»Last » Most Popular Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? Most Visited Articles I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How Does Google Use Machine Learning? Most asked Computer Science Subjects Interview Questions in Amazon, Microsoft, Flipkart How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved