https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/shift-left-testing-approach/ Shift Left Testing approach - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Geek Week – Celebrate The Biggest Programming Festival With GeeksforGeeks I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? 7 Common Programming Principles That Every Developer Must Follow SOLID Principle in Programming: Understand With Real Life Examples How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development 10 Famous Bugs in The Computer Science World How Does Google Use Machine Learning? How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 Which is better, the GRE or the GATE? How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? How to Protect Yourself From Cyber Attacks? Computer science, an overrated dream 10 Tips to Protect Your Online Data Privacy in 2019 Microsoft Windows (10) Vs macOS (Mojave) Interesting Funny Commands in Linux If we delete cookies of a site, we can still logged in without logging again How to Setup Burp Suite for Bug Bounty or Web Application Penetration Testing? Neuralink - A Brain-Computer Interface Technology Evolution of Foldable Smartphones Impact of IoT on CyberSecurity How to Transparently Overlaid Two Directories Using UnionFS in Linux? Benefits of Automated Cross-Browser Testing for Online Business Brain Machine Interface (BMI) Shift Left Testing approach Some companies champion a “waterfall approach” to product design. Here, the software is designed sequentially. It strictly goes through the development cycle of: 1. Requirements/Gathering
2. Design
3. Development
4. Deployment Testing is delegated to the end stages of the product design (before the deployment stage). This is normally called “shift right testing”. Testing at the End Stages – An Inferior Strategy: All codes are prone to bugs. And bugs can be minor (low risk) or major (high risk) depending on the type of error. The earlier those bugs are caught, the better. It allows time for development teams to fix software without delays and avoid prolonged end testing phases. It’s also easier to fix bugged software when too many bugs aren’t showing up at the same time. This is the reason shift right strategies is ineffective in most cases. Realistically, it’s exhausting going through every coding line of an end-product – just to find a bug or two. It’s better to fix each unit as the code is being developed. And this is where shift-left comes in! Improved Code Quality: The earlier you detect a bug, the better. It allows for better communication between testing and developing teams. It allows both teams to address each bug 1-by-1. Contrast that to a shift-right approach. Here, all bugs are addressed at once. And many may be forgotten or ignored (due to time or budget constraints). Multiple test types: When codes are tested at each design stage – a multitude of test types can be applied. For example, unit testing is a possibility with a shift-left approach. Here, each component is tested separately to check for individual bugs. Also, integration testing can be done frequently across the design stage. And this ensures that bugs don’t develop as different units are assigned together. Contrast that to shift-right strategies, which only allow for the possibility of system testing. And even that isn’t accurate and isn’t effective at discovering all bugs. Finding design defects and architectural problems: Sometimes, bugs aren’t the problem. Major aspects (or ideas) that are being implemented that may be defective. Those defects (which may interfere with other codes) should be discovered early. Otherwise, too much time is wasted on implementing major design plans that are unfeasible. This is another added pro of shift-left testing. After all, smaller unit tests are automated, and their test cases are easy to design. Contrast that to system testing – which takes time, and must be done manually. It also can’t be repeated often. And that repeatability is what makes shift-left approaches better. It allows for a product of better code quality, reducing the chances of high-risk errors! Reduced development and testing costs: Bugs that are caught early reduce the chances of side-effects. With fewer side-effects to worry about, product launches can be done on-time. A final code can be delivered to the end customer without needing future fixes. Here, it’s recommended that bug tests are done after every build. This allows for better automated continuous testing, which is impossible with large bug sizes. Also, shift-left approaches reduce the need for system testing. And in fact, that might be eliminated altogether if testing is done frequently. Fewer problems for future versions: Many software is designed with online features. They’re also designed with the intention of patching future versions. Those future versions cannot be added in – if prior versions have unfixed bugs. This leads to a “bow wave” effect, where multiple bug side-effects might stack. And the result is, certain bugs become impossible to fix. Keeps all project stakeholders informed: With the shift-left approach, testing is done at each critical stage of the software’s development. As a result, the testing team ends up (by necessity) being involved in the planning of the project. They’re also informed on its business goals. This lets them gain a better perspective on the software’s purpose. And it allows them to find creative ideas and solutions in the middle of testing. Plus, it keeps them motivated. Because testing teams understand what their efforts contribute to in the long-run. Keeps the developer team conscientious: Many design projects put developers in the position of creating code. But what about checking quality while writing each line? This mindset is ingrained into developers by encouraging frequent testing. And since testing requires time-consuming revisions, it ensures that a developer minimizes errors while writing code. With a shift-left approach, developers are encouraged to be more responsible. And it also enhances their skills and proficiency levels! Improved testing collaboration: Shift-left approaches take advantage of frequent “automation”. It lets them perform continuous testing to reduce time. But, that still leaves the problem of designing those tests. And this is often left to the testing team to figure out. Also, the problem here is, designing the best tests requires knowing the purpose of the product, and it’s business goals. With a shift-left approach, since developer and testing teams work together – they can design automated tests with each other’s’ input. This leads to the development of testing scenarios that are realistic and accurate at finding bugs and problems. Picking the approach that works for you: Shift-left approaches can be practiced in a multitude of ways. And they suit software of all sizes (from large online platforms – to small mobile apps). As a result, you’ll find that your design deadline differs based on the project. And as a result, the approach you pick differs. Model-based: At least half of a given software’s bugs appear during the requirements gathering phase. Finding bugs in that stage reduces any need to fix bugs later on. Plus, they keep testing teams informed on the basic goals of the project. Traditional testing: Here, the focus is on continuous testing, through unit and integration tests. It focuses on automation as much as possible, thus saving time and development costs. This form of testing tends to ignore acceptance and system tests (whose results are more or less guaranteed through frequent unit/integration tests). Incremental testing: This tries to mimic a traditional testing model – but it’s aimed at large projects. Testing is broken down into minor pieces, where a set of codes are tested. After codes are integrated together, they’re tested again to ensure a lack of bugs. DevOps/Fragile testing: Performed less frequently than traditional models, this form of testing works for smaller projects that have tight deadlines. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Recommended Posts: Difference between System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT) Software Engineering | Differences between Sanity Testing and Smoke Testing Difference between Database Testing and Data warehouse Testing Software Engineering | Comparison between Regression Testing and Re-Testing Difference between Cucumber Testing and Selenium Testing Difference between Unit Testing and System Testing Graphical User Interface Testing (GUI) Testing Difference between Unit Testing and Integration Testing Difference between Frontend Testing and Backend Testing Difference between Agile Testing and Waterfall Testing Difference between Active Testing and Passive Testing Difference between Performance Testing and Load Testing Difference between Black Box Testing and Gray Box Testing Difference between Unit Testing and Sandwich Testing Differences between White Box Testing and Gray Box Testing stellamurugesan Check out this Author's contributed articles. If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article using contribute.geeksforgeeks.org or mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks. Please Improve this article if you find anything incorrect by clicking on the "Improve Article" button below. Article Tags : GBlog Software Engineering thumb_up Be the First to upvote. To-do Done 0 No votes yet. Please write to us at contribute@geeksforgeeks.org to report any issue with the above content. Post navigation Previous first_page Special 21 – Coding Interview Preparation in 21 Days Lockdown Next last_page How to Make Your Work From Home More Productive? Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments Most popular articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Goldman Sachs Interview Experience (Off Campus) Impact of IoT on CyberSecurity Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 Most visited in Software Engineering Difference between Traditional and Agile Software Development Difference between Positive Testing and Negative Testing Difference between Software Testing and Embedded Testing Difference between Tester and SDET ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved