https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tcs-codevita-interview-experience-6/ TCS Codevita Interview Experience - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Amazon Interview Experience Offcampus for SDE-1 Amazon Interview Experience for SDE | On-Campus 2019 Amazon Interview Experience for SDE 1 | OFF-Campus - 2019 Goldman Sachs Interview Experience (Off Campus) Samsung R&D Institute Interview Question Goldman Sachs Interview Experience | September 2019 | Experienced Amazon Interview Experience for SDE 2 (3 years Experienced) Microsoft Interview Experience (3 years Experienced) Microsoft Interview Experience (On Campus for 2020 Summer Internship) IBM Recruitment Process 2019 OnePlus Campus Recruitment ( R&D India ) for batch 2020 Amazon Interview Experience 2019 (SDE, DE, SE ) Amdocs Interview Experience Amazon Interview Experience | SDE-I TCS NQT 2020 Interview Experience Oyo Rooms Interview Experience | SDE 2 (3 years Experienced ) SAP Labs Interview Experience (On-Campus FTE | VJTI, Mumbai) Media.net Interview Experience | On-Campus VMware Interview Experience | On-Campus Western Digital Interview Experience | On-Campus for FTE Hiring Mindtickle Interview Experience | Off campus Internship General Electric Interview Experience 2019 (On-Campus For EEDP Program) Nagarrow Interview Experience VMware Interview Experience for Developer | On-Campus SAP Labs Interview Experience | FTE 2019 Infosys Power Programmer Role Selection Experience Through INFYTQ Accolite Interview Experience (Software Engineer) DE Shaw On-Campus Interview Experience | QA Engineer Media.net (Directi) Interview Experience | On-Campus Qualcomm Interview Experience (Off Campus) TCS Codevita Interview Experience Few months ago in August 2019, I interviewed for TCS for Campus Recruitment but with the help of their Coding Contest called- “TCS Codevita Season 8” which were held in July 2019. There were three rounds in the complete recruitment process which are mentioned below. Round 1: (Online Coding Round) The first round was an online coding contest consisting of six coding questions that were based on competitive programming. The total time given for this Coding Assessment was 6 hours. And that coding test was proctored by webcam. To clear this round I think at least one question is compulsory to complete with all test cases. I had done two questions because the difficulty level of those questions was difficult. This round is must to clear for appearing in the interview process. In this round, they actually want to check the Logical Ability of the candidates appearing for the interview process. The questions that were asked during the coding contest have different difficulty levels like few are intermediate and few are advanced but the overall level was difficult. The questions asked in this round are based upon different concepts of Mathematics entitled Roman Iterations, Salary Paid and based on the series and some manipulations entitled Marathon Winner and so on. In August starting, I received an email from TCS that I am shortlisted for the Interview Process. Round 2: (Technical & Managerial Interview) This the first round of the interview process where I interviewed both the Technical and Managerial interviewer simultaneously. This round began with little about myself. Then there was a brief discussion about my strengths and weaknesses. After that, they asked me about my role in internships that are mentioned in my resume. Then they discuss the details of projects done by me during my internship phase. So be prepare yourself according to your resume so that you can easily answer their questions. Now after 5-10 minutes of discussion on my resume, they start asking me the technical questions related to Data Structures such as the difference between Selection and Bubble Sort in terms of their working as well as their complexities. After this, the remaining technical sets of questions are from Java and 1-2 questions are from a Scripting language. The list of questions asked are mentioned below: Difference between Function Overloading and Function Overriding in Java. Interface and Abstract Class in Java. Why we use Interface if we already have abstract classes in Java? Abstraction and Encapsulation difference. OOPs Concepts. What is the use of NodeJS? callback() function in JS. Whether Python is a scripting language or not? Difference between Python and Javascript. Difference between HTML and HTML5 How migrations work and use in PHP? Promises in Javascript. Collection framework in Java. Types of Classes in Java. Adapter Class in Java. Use of static keyword in Java. Different domains and technology on which TCS is working. That’ all about the discussion in the Interview round. This round is about 30-45 minutes long. After this round, they asked to wait outside for further round. Round 3: (HR Round) This is the last round of the process. In this round, I was interviewed with the HR person of the company and this round was about 10-15 minutes long. They asked me about the different kind of questions related to TCS which are mentioned below: Who is the CEO of TCS? What is the Vision of TCS? What is the Mission of TCS? What are the Core Values of TCS? What is Industry 4.0? What is Business 4.0? What are the four pillars of Business 4.0? Why do you want to join TCS? Is relocation is acceptable to you? Whether do you have any problem with the bond or not? What attracts you towards TCS? HR may ask questions about the recent technologies as well as about the market trend. So prepare yourself accordingly. It was a mass recruitment drive. So my advice is to keep calm and have a smile on your face. And for the interview process, prepare the basic questions from your technical subject such as Data Structures, DBMS, Algorithms and have good hands-on any one of your preferred coding languages. My one more advice is to maintain eye contact with the interviewer and don’t hesitate and be confident to answer any question. The last and important thing if you are interested in the Digital profile of TCS, then you should have basic knowledge of Machine Learning, Blockchain, Cloud Computing, and Agile Methodology and must have advance knowledge in at least one of them. That’ all about my Interview experience of TCS. Good Luck!! Write your Interview Experience or mail it to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Recommended Posts: TCS Codevita Interview Experience TCS CodeVita Interview Experience TCS Codevita Interview Experience TCS Codevita Interview Experience TCS Interview Experience through CodeVita TCS Codevita Interview Experience TCS Interview Experience | Set 9 (Off-Campus through CodeVita) TCS Codevita Interview Experience 2019 TCS Interview Experience | Set 12 (Off-Campus through CodeVita) TCS Codevita Interview Experience 2019 TCS Interview Experience | Set 10 (Off-Campus through CodeVita) TCS Codevita Interview Experience | 2019 TCS Codevita Interview Experience - 2019 TCS Codevita 7 2018 Interview Experience TCS Interview Experience | Set 11 (On-Campus through CodeVita) If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article using contribute.geeksforgeeks.org or mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks. Please Improve this article if you find anything incorrect by clicking on the "Improve Article" button below. Article Tags : Interview Experiences TCS TCS-interview-experience Practice Tags : TCS thumb_up Be the First to upvote. To-do Done 0 No votes yet. Please write to us at contribute@geeksforgeeks.org to report any issue with the above content. Post navigation Previous first_page Codenation Interview Experience (2020 Graduate) Next last_page Microsoft Internship Experience | On-Campus Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments Most popular in Interview Experiences Scholarship for 2nd year from Schneider Electric India Sixt Interview Experience for SDE-1 TCS Interview Experience | Off-Campus September 2019 Orange Business Services Interview Experience | On-Campus 2019 Infosys Interview Experience through HackwithInfy More related articles in Interview Experiences Grofers Interview Experience | Online Round Yardi Software Interview Experience TCS Interview Experience JP Morgan Interview Experience | On Campus TCS Ninja National Qualifier Test 2020 Interview Experience ECE ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved