https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/testimonials/ Testimonials - Words that keep us going - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Write an Article Courses @ GeeksforGeeks Internships @ GeeksforGeeks Coding Practice How to write an Interview Experience? Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Must Do Coding Questions Topic-wise Basic Easy Medium Hard Expert Step by Step Preparation Company Preparation Top Topics Company Specific Practice Software Design Patterns Placements Preparation Course Interview Corner Recent Interview Experiences GQ Home Page Quiz Corner LMNs What's New ? Leaderboard !! Topic-wise Practice Subjective Problems Difficulty Level - School Difficulty Level - Basic Difficulty Level - Easy Difficulty Level - Medium Difficulty Level - Hard Explore More... C C++ Java Python SQL PHP JavaScript School Programming Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Engineering Mathematics Design Patterns Common Interview Puzzles Web Technology G-Facts Computer Graphics Image Processing Project Ideas Testimonials – Words that keep us going Drop your Testimonial here Placed in Google Hello, I have been practicing questions on this site for the last 2 years and recently I got placed at Google. Really loved the breadth of concepts and topics available on this site. Great work guys!! Thank you GeeksforGeeks for giving such an awesome platform to prepare for interviews. Suraj Kath Placed in Google Hello, I have been practicing questions on this site for the last 2 years and recently I got placed at Google. Really loved the breadth of concepts and topics available on this site. Great work guys!! Thank you GeeksforGeeks for giving such an awesome platform to prepare for interviews. Read More Placed in Google, Amazon I am Siddharth Rajpal, a 2014 passout from NSIT and I used to visit your website to prepare for job interviews and once I was ready I started applying to various companies. I got recruited at Google, Amazon, Reliance Jio, Cadence, Mentor Graphics, Delhivery and Octro and all thanks to your website I am living a dream I once had. Siddharth Rajpal Placed in Google, Amazon I am Siddharth Rajpal, a 2014 passout from NSIT and I used to visit your website to prepare for job interviews and once I was ready I started applying to various companies. I got recruited at Google, Amazon, Reliance Jio, Cadence, Mentor Graphics, Delhivery and Octro and all thanks to your website I am living a dream I once had. Read More Amazon(2014) Google(2015) I just want to say “Thank you for create GeeksForGeeks”. My life change when I was accepted first in Amazon (2014) and then in Google( 2015), and it was possible studying everything from the page, thanks a lot, best regards:) Kyoo San Martin Monroy Amazon(2014) Google(2015) I just want to say “Thank you for create GeeksForGeeks”. My life change when I was accepted first in Amazon (2014) and then in Google( 2015), and it was possible studying everything from the page, thanks a lot, best regards:) Read More Thank you GeeksforGeeks for giving such an awesome platform to prepare for interviews. Vipin Khullar Thank you GeeksforGeeks for giving such an awesome platform to prepare for interviews. Read More Placed in Amazon Thank you for providing great platform for learning. Recently amazon visited our campus and I was interviewed by Amazon and got the offer just because of geeksforgeeks. Thanks a lot. Vivek Kumar Thakur Placed in Amazon Thank you for providing great platform for learning. Recently amazon visited our campus and I was interviewed by Amazon and got the offer just because of geeksforgeeks. Thanks a lot. Read More Thank you so much for providing one of the best portal to learn problem solving techniques, programming languages, Puzzles and many more. Murlidar Setty Thank you so much for providing one of the best portal to learn problem solving techniques, programming languages, Puzzles and many more. Read More Placed in Amazon as SDE-1 I recently got placed in Amazon. Thank you GeeksForGeeks for being an immense help.Thank you so much. Just to specify, it was an On Campus recruitment for SDE-1. Milind Shah Placed in Amazon as SDE-1 I recently got placed in Amazon. Thank you GeeksForGeeks for being an immense help.Thank you so much. Just to specify, it was an On Campus recruitment for SDE-1. Read More Thank you geeksforgeeks. It is a wonderful site to prepare.Thank you once again GeeksforGeeks for providing the awesome platform for preparation. Vaishali Pari Thank you geeksforgeeks. It is a wonderful site to prepare.Thank you once again GeeksforGeeks for providing the awesome platform for preparation. Read More Goldman Sachs During my stay at GeeksforGeeks I got to learn a lot. I was directly in touch with all the employees of the company and seeing my work making a direct impact was indeed satisfying. They were really compassionate and eager to listen to my ideas and implement them in the real world. As all the interns and employees over there were working in close proximity to each other, it was a tremendous learning curve for me. The best part about this organisation is that the working condition encourages you to work more and I never felt like being burdened. There is a feedback process followed which enables timely assessment and guidance to work in the right direction. All and all, I can say that it was a great experience working with like-minded individuals during my internship at GeeksforGeeks. Abhiraj Smit Goldman Sachs During my stay at GeeksforGeeks I got to learn a lot. I was directly in touch with all the employees of the company and seeing my work making a direct impact was indeed satisfying. They were really compassionate and eager to listen to my ideas and implement them in the real world. As all the interns and employees over there were working in close proximity to each other, it was a tremendous learning curve for me. The best part about this organisation is that the working condition encourages you to work more and I never felt like being burdened. There is a feedback process followed which enables timely assessment and guidance to work in the right direction. All and all, I can say that it was a great experience working with like-minded individuals during my internship at GeeksforGeeks. Read More Was selected in GS and Ca First of all, I want to thank you for the immense help that you guys were in my placement preparation. I was selected for GS and Cap One in campus placements at IIT Kanpur and a large part of that is because of invaluable resources hosted at your website. I can’t describe to you in words, how grateful I am for all the resources provided on your website (including that sorted matrix problem). Kanhaya Namdhar Was selected in GS and Cap One through campus placement at IIT Kanpur First of all, I want to thank you for the immense help that you guys were in my placement preparation. I was selected for GS and Cap One in campus placements at IIT Kanpur and a large part of that is because of invaluable resources hosted at your website. I can’t describe to you in words, how grateful I am for all the resources provided on your website (including that sorted matrix problem). Read More Preparing for Google inte Hey guys! Thanks a million for your videos, explanations and code on your website, I’m currently preparing for a round of interviews at Google, and all your content has been incredibly helpful, thanks a lot, keep up the amazing work. Jean Gagnair Preparing for Google interview Hey guys! Thanks a million for your videos, explanations and code on your website, I’m currently preparing for a round of interviews at Google, and all your content has been incredibly helpful, thanks a lot, keep up the amazing work. Read More Most Popular Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? Most Visited Articles How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How Does Google Use Machine Learning? Most asked Computer Science Subjects Interview Questions in Amazon, Microsoft, Flipkart How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? × ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reservedhttp://www.geeksforgeeks.org/testimonials/ Testimonials - Words that keep us going - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Write an Article Courses @ GeeksforGeeks Internships @ GeeksforGeeks Coding Practice How to write an Interview Experience? Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Must Do Coding Questions Topic-wise Basic Easy Medium Hard Expert Step by Step Preparation Company Preparation Top Topics Company Specific Practice Software Design Patterns Placements Preparation Course Interview Corner Recent Interview Experiences GQ Home Page Quiz Corner LMNs What's New ? Leaderboard !! Topic-wise Practice Subjective Problems Difficulty Level - School Difficulty Level - Basic Difficulty Level - Easy Difficulty Level - Medium Difficulty Level - Hard Explore More... C C++ Java Python SQL PHP JavaScript School Programming Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Engineering Mathematics Design Patterns Common Interview Puzzles Web Technology G-Facts Computer Graphics Image Processing Project Ideas Testimonials – Words that keep us going Drop your Testimonial here Placed in Google Hello, I have been practicing questions on this site for the last 2 years and recently I got placed at Google. Really loved the breadth of concepts and topics available on this site. Great work guys!! Thank you GeeksforGeeks for giving such an awesome platform to prepare for interviews. Suraj Kath Placed in Google Hello, I have been practicing questions on this site for the last 2 years and recently I got placed at Google. Really loved the breadth of concepts and topics available on this site. Great work guys!! Thank you GeeksforGeeks for giving such an awesome platform to prepare for interviews. Read More Placed in Google, Amazon I am Siddharth Rajpal, a 2014 passout from NSIT and I used to visit your website to prepare for job interviews and once I was ready I started applying to various companies. I got recruited at Google, Amazon, Reliance Jio, Cadence, Mentor Graphics, Delhivery and Octro and all thanks to your website I am living a dream I once had. Siddharth Rajpal Placed in Google, Amazon I am Siddharth Rajpal, a 2014 passout from NSIT and I used to visit your website to prepare for job interviews and once I was ready I started applying to various companies. I got recruited at Google, Amazon, Reliance Jio, Cadence, Mentor Graphics, Delhivery and Octro and all thanks to your website I am living a dream I once had. Read More Amazon(2014) Google(2015) I just want to say “Thank you for create GeeksForGeeks”. My life change when I was accepted first in Amazon (2014) and then in Google( 2015), and it was possible studying everything from the page, thanks a lot, best regards:) Kyoo San Martin Monroy Amazon(2014) Google(2015) I just want to say “Thank you for create GeeksForGeeks”. My life change when I was accepted first in Amazon (2014) and then in Google( 2015), and it was possible studying everything from the page, thanks a lot, best regards:) Read More Thank you GeeksforGeeks for giving such an awesome platform to prepare for interviews. Vipin Khullar Thank you GeeksforGeeks for giving such an awesome platform to prepare for interviews. Read More Placed in Amazon Thank you for providing great platform for learning. Recently amazon visited our campus and I was interviewed by Amazon and got the offer just because of geeksforgeeks. Thanks a lot. Vivek Kumar Thakur Placed in Amazon Thank you for providing great platform for learning. Recently amazon visited our campus and I was interviewed by Amazon and got the offer just because of geeksforgeeks. Thanks a lot. Read More Thank you so much for providing one of the best portal to learn problem solving techniques, programming languages, Puzzles and many more. Murlidar Setty Thank you so much for providing one of the best portal to learn problem solving techniques, programming languages, Puzzles and many more. Read More Placed in Amazon as SDE-1 I recently got placed in Amazon. Thank you GeeksForGeeks for being an immense help.Thank you so much. Just to specify, it was an On Campus recruitment for SDE-1. Milind Shah Placed in Amazon as SDE-1 I recently got placed in Amazon. Thank you GeeksForGeeks for being an immense help.Thank you so much. Just to specify, it was an On Campus recruitment for SDE-1. Read More Thank you geeksforgeeks. It is a wonderful site to prepare.Thank you once again GeeksforGeeks for providing the awesome platform for preparation. Vaishali Pari Thank you geeksforgeeks. It is a wonderful site to prepare.Thank you once again GeeksforGeeks for providing the awesome platform for preparation. Read More Goldman Sachs During my stay at GeeksforGeeks I got to learn a lot. I was directly in touch with all the employees of the company and seeing my work making a direct impact was indeed satisfying. They were really compassionate and eager to listen to my ideas and implement them in the real world. As all the interns and employees over there were working in close proximity to each other, it was a tremendous learning curve for me. The best part about this organisation is that the working condition encourages you to work more and I never felt like being burdened. There is a feedback process followed which enables timely assessment and guidance to work in the right direction. All and all, I can say that it was a great experience working with like-minded individuals during my internship at GeeksforGeeks. Abhiraj Smit Goldman Sachs During my stay at GeeksforGeeks I got to learn a lot. I was directly in touch with all the employees of the company and seeing my work making a direct impact was indeed satisfying. They were really compassionate and eager to listen to my ideas and implement them in the real world. As all the interns and employees over there were working in close proximity to each other, it was a tremendous learning curve for me. The best part about this organisation is that the working condition encourages you to work more and I never felt like being burdened. There is a feedback process followed which enables timely assessment and guidance to work in the right direction. All and all, I can say that it was a great experience working with like-minded individuals during my internship at GeeksforGeeks. Read More Was selected in GS and Ca First of all, I want to thank you for the immense help that you guys were in my placement preparation. I was selected for GS and Cap One in campus placements at IIT Kanpur and a large part of that is because of invaluable resources hosted at your website. I can’t describe to you in words, how grateful I am for all the resources provided on your website (including that sorted matrix problem). Kanhaya Namdhar Was selected in GS and Cap One through campus placement at IIT Kanpur First of all, I want to thank you for the immense help that you guys were in my placement preparation. I was selected for GS and Cap One in campus placements at IIT Kanpur and a large part of that is because of invaluable resources hosted at your website. I can’t describe to you in words, how grateful I am for all the resources provided on your website (including that sorted matrix problem). Read More Preparing for Google inte Hey guys! Thanks a million for your videos, explanations and code on your website, I’m currently preparing for a round of interviews at Google, and all your content has been incredibly helpful, thanks a lot, keep up the amazing work. Jean Gagnair Preparing for Google interview Hey guys! Thanks a million for your videos, explanations and code on your website, I’m currently preparing for a round of interviews at Google, and all your content has been incredibly helpful, thanks a lot, keep up the amazing work. Read More Most Popular Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? Most Visited Articles How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How Does Google Use Machine Learning? Most asked Computer Science Subjects Interview Questions in Amazon, Microsoft, Flipkart How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? × ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved