https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/top-machine-learning-trends-in-2019/?ref=leftbar-rightbar Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 - GeeksforGeeks GeeksforGeeks x × Suggest a Topic Select a Category Advanced Computer Subject Advanced Data Structure Algorithms Algorithms Quiz Analysis AngularJS Aptitude Arrays Articles Articles Backtracking Binary Search Tree Bit Magic Bootstrap Branch and Bound C C Programs C Quiz C# C# Programs C++ C++ Programs C++ Quiz CAT Combinatorial Competitive Programming Compiler Design Compiler Design Computer Networks Computer Networks Quiz Computer Organization & Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Subject CS – Placements CSS Data Structures Data Structures DBMS DBMS Quiz Design Pattern DI – Placements Difference Between Digital Electronics & Logic Design Divide and Conquer Dynamic Programming Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mathematics Questions English – Placements Experienced Game Theory GATE GATE CS GBlog Geek on the Top GeeksforGeeks Initiatives GeeksQuiz Geometric GFacts Git Go Language Graph GRE GRE Quiz Greedy Hadoop Hash Heap HTML Internship Interview Experiences ISRO Java Java Programs Java Quiz JavaScript JQuery JS++ Julia Kotlin Linked List Linux-Unix Machine Learning Mathematical Matrix MCQ Misc Node.js Operating Systems Operating Systems Questions Pattern Searching Perl PHP PHP Programs Placements Program Output Programming Language Project Puzzles Python Python Programs Python-Quizzes QA – Placement Quizzes QA – Placements Queue Quizzes Randomized Reasoning – Placements Recursion Ruby Scala School Programming Searching Software Engineering Sorting SQL Stack Strings Technical Scripter TechTips test_cat_june Theory of Computation Theory of Computation & Automata Tree UGC-NET Web Technologies Web technologies Questions Write From Home Submit menu Skip to content Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does ‘Space Complexity’ mean? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Languages C C++ Java Python C# Javascript JQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes GATE GATE CS Notes 2020 Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Orignal Papers and Official Keys GATE 2020 Dates GATE CS 2020 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Sudo GATE 2020 ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers CS Subjects Mathematics First Order Logic Combinatorics Set Theory Graph Theory Linear Algebra Probability Calculus Operating Systems Processes, threads, CPU scheduling Process Synchronization Deadlock Memory Management File and Disk Management DBMS Entity Relationship Model Relational Model Normalisation SQL Transactions and concurrency control Computer Networks Basics Data Link Layer Network layer Transport layer Application layer Network Security and Cryptography Computer Organization and Architecture Basics ALU, data‐path and control unit Pipelining Memory Organisation Input and Output Systems Theory of Computation Regular Languages and Finite Automata Context Free Grammar and Context Free Languages Turing Machine Compiler Design Introduction Lexical Analysis Syntax Analysis Syntax Directed Translation Runtime Environments Code Generation and Optimization Digital Logic Boolean Algebra and Logic Gates Combinational Logic Circuits Flip-Flops and Sequential Circuits Software Engineering Introduction Software Development Models & Architecture Software Project Management Software Requirements Software Testing and Debugging Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript PHP JQuery Students Get Hired Campus Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Courses Home Algorithms expand_more All Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Bit Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Game Theory Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch & Bound Data Structures expand_more All Data Structures Array LinkedList Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings Languages expand_more C C++ Java Python SQL PHP Javascript Program Output Interview expand_more Company Prep Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competitive Programming Design Patterns Multiple Choice Quizzes Students expand_more Campus Ambassador Program Geek of the Month Placement Course Project Competitive Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship School Programming GATE expand_more GATE CS Corner GATE Notes Last Minute Notes Official Papers Gate 2018 Important Dates and Links CS Subjects expand_more Operating Systems DBMS Computer Networks Compiler Design Web Technology Computer Organization & Architecture Digital Electronics Engg. Mathematics Theory of Computation Advanced Topics What’s Difference? Quizzes expand_more C C++ Java Python Data Structures Algorithms Operating Systems DBMS Compiler Design Computer Networks Theory of Computation Computer Organization Software Engineering HTML & XML Engg. Mathematics Aptitude GBlog Puzzles What’s New? Special 21 ▲ Geek Week – Celebrate The Biggest Programming Festival With GeeksforGeeks I don't like Coding. What should I do to Get a Job in IT? What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? 7 Common Programming Principles That Every Developer Must Follow SOLID Principle in Programming: Understand With Real Life Examples How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide How to Become a Data Analyst in 2019: A Complete Guide Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development 10 Famous Bugs in The Computer Science World How Does Google Use Machine Learning? How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? Which is better, the GRE or the GATE? How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? How to Protect Yourself From Cyber Attacks? Computer science, an overrated dream Graphene Batteries 10 Tips to Protect Your Online Data Privacy in 2019 Microsoft Windows (10) Vs macOS (Mojave) Interesting Funny Commands in Linux If we delete cookies of a site, we can still logged in without logging again How to Setup Burp Suite for Bug Bounty or Web Application Penetration Testing? Neuralink - A Brain-Computer Interface Technology How to use Emojis in Windows 10? Evolution of Foldable Smartphones Impact of IoT on CyberSecurity How to Transparently Overlaid Two Directories Using UnionFS in Linux? Benefits of Automated Cross-Browser Testing for Online Business Comparing Python with C and C++ Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 Just as electricity transformed almost everything 100 years ago, today I actually have a hard time thinking of an industry that I don’t think Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning will transform in the next several years – Andrew Ng And that’s true enough! In these dynamic times, there is a dramatic increase in the platforms, tools, and applications that are based on Machine Learning. And these technologies are not only impacting the software industry but industries all across the spectrum like healthcare, automobile, manufacturing, entertainment, agriculture, etc. like Andrew Ng rightly stated. And this advancement in Machine Learning technologies is only increasing with each year as top companies like Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft, etc. are heavily investing in research and development for Machine Learning and its myriad offshoots. Keeping this in mind, let’s see some of the top Machine Learning trends for 2019 that will probably shape the future world and pave the path for more Machine Learning technologies. 1. Digital Data Forgetting Using Machine Learning (Rather Machine Unlearning!) These days data is the new oil in Computer Science! We are producing more and more data every day and this means that we are fast running out of places to store the data! Regular software systems cannot handle Big Data and while Cloud Computing is very helpful, the overall costs to manage large amounts of data are insane! And so, there are some times when it is much more beneficial than some data is conveniently forgotten by the system. This can occur in situations when organizations want to control their data related expenditure or maybe when users want their data and lineage forgotten by the system because of privacy risks and so on. In such situations, it is better to use Machine Learning to thoroughly understand the scenarios and identify the unnecessary data so it can be deleted or rather forgotten (In other words Machine Unlearning!). 2. Interoperability among Neural Networks Artificial Neural Networks are a part of Machine Learning that are inspired by, amazingly enough, biological neural networks (So we were inspired by ourselves basically!!!) But one of the major challenges in creating Artificial Neural Networks is choosing the right framework for them. And Data scientists are spoiled for choice among various options like PyTorch, Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit, Apache MXNet, TensorFlow, etc. But the problem is that once a Neural Network is trained and evaluated on a particular framework, it is extremely difficult to port this on a different framework. This somewhat diminishes the far-reaching capabilities of Machine Learning. So to handle this problem, AWS, Facebook and Microsoft have collaborated to create the Open Neural Network Exchange (ONNX), which allows for the reuse of trained neural network models across multiple frameworks. Now ONNX will become an essential technology that will lead to increased interoperability among Neural Networks. 3. Automated Machine Learning For those who are not experts in the mysterious world of Machine Learning, Automated Machine Learning is godsent! It allows the application of Machine Learning solutions much easier for ML non-experts and may even be able to easily handle the complex scenarios in training ML models. So a tool like AutoML which can be used to train high-quality custom machine learning models while having minimal machine learning expertise will surely gain prominence. It can easily deliver the right amount of customization without a detailed understanding of the complex workflow of Machine Learning. However, AutoML is not a silver bullet and it can require some additional parameters that can only be set with some measure of expertise. (So you will have to learn some Machine Learning!) 4. The convergence of Internet of Things and Machine Learning Machine Learning and the Internet of Things is like a match made in Tech Heaven!!! According to Business Insider, there will be more than 64 billion IoT devices by 2025, up from about 9 billion in 2017. All these IoT devices generate a lot of data that needs to be collected and mined for actionable results. Now, this requires the expertise of advanced Machine Learning models that are based on deep neural networks. So the Internet of Things is used to collect and handle the huge amount of data that is required by the ML algorithms. In turn, these algorithms convert the data into useful actionable results that can be implemented by the IoT devices. This convergence of IoT and ML can transform industries and help them in making more informed decisions based on the mammoth data available every day which will result in new value propositions, business models, revenue streams and services. 5. Rise Of Natural Language Processing for Customer Support It’s obvious that humans can converse with each other using speech but now machines can too! This is known as Natural Language Processing where machines analyze and understand language and speech as it is spoken (Now if you talk to a machine it may just talk back!). And now NLP is extremely popular for customer support applications, particularly the chatbot. These chatbots use ML and NLP to interact with the users in textual form and solve their queries. So you get the human touch in your customer support interactions without ever directly interacting with a human. And that’s not all! NLP and ML are also invaluable in actually parsing through different conversations and understanding what the users are saying. This allows the company to acquire strategic information about the users such as their preferences, buying habits, sentiments, etc. which can then be analyzed to understand market trends, operational risks, etc. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Recommended Posts: Top Machine Learning Applications in 2019 Learning Model Building in Scikit-learn : A Python Machine Learning Library Artificial intelligence vs Machine Learning vs Deep Learning Azure Virtual Machine for Machine Learning How to Start Learning Machine Learning? ML | What is Machine Learning ? Machine Learning in C++ Clustering in Machine Learning What is AutoML in Machine Learning? How Does Google Use Machine Learning? Regularization in Machine Learning How Does NASA Use Machine Learning? Stacking in Machine Learning Firebase Machine Learning kit Machine Learning | Outlier harkiran78 Check out this Author's contributed articles. If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article using contribute.geeksforgeeks.org or mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks. Please Improve this article if you find anything incorrect by clicking on the "Improve Article" button below. Article Tags : GBlog Machine Learning Practice Tags : Machine Learning thumb_up 3 To-do Done 5 Based on 1 vote(s) Please write to us at contribute@geeksforgeeks.org to report any issue with the above content. Post navigation Previous first_page Neuralink – A Brain-Computer Interface Technology Next last_page Which Programming Language Should I Choose as a Beginner? Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments Most popular articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Convert Directed Graph into a Tree Best Books to Learn Back-End Web Development Top Machine Learning Trends in 2019 How to Crack System Design Round in Interviews? Most visited in Machine Learning Deploy Machine Learning Model using Flask Python | Classify Handwritten Digits with Tensorflow ML | Word Encryption using Keras Python | Single Point Crossover in Genetic Algorithm ✍ Write a Testimonial ⇣ 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org COMPANY About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us LEARN Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials PRACTICE Courses Company-wise Topic-wise How to begin? CONTRIBUTE Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks, Some rights reserved